R
or
r,
a liquid consonant, being the seventeenth letter of
5
our alphabet. Its sound is formed by a guttural extrusion of breath vibrated through the mouth, with a sort of quivering motion of the tongue drawn from the teeth, and canulated with the tip a little elevated towards the palate. In Greek words it is frequently aspirated with an
h
after it, as in
rhapsody, rhetoric,
and so forth ; otherwise it is always followed by a vowel at the beginning of words and syllables.
In the notes of the ancients, R. or RO. signifies
Roma,
R. C.
Romana civitas;
R. G. C.
rei gerendœ causa;
R. F. E. D.
recte factum et dictum;
R. G. F.
regisfllius;
R. P. 
res publica,
or
Romani principes,
and R. R. R. F. F. F.
res Romana ruet ferro, fame, flamma.
Used as a numeral, R anciently stood for 80; and with a dash over it thus κ, for 80,000 ; but the Greek
τ, ρ',
with a small mark over it, signified 100 ; with the same mark under it, it denoted 1000 × 10 ; thus
pl
signifies 100,000. In the Hebrew numeration 1 denoted 200 ; and with two horizontal points over it 1000 × 200; thus'S=200,000. In the prescriptions of physicians, R or R stands for
recipe,
that is, “ take.”
RAAB, a city of the Austrian kingdom of Hungary, in the province of the hither Danube, the capital of a circle of the same name, and of the mouth of the Raab. It is well built, and contains 1540 houses, with 14,000 inhabitants. It is the seat of a Catholic bishop, and of an academy with ten professors, and of several normal schools. The chief employment consists in making woollen goods, and its chief trade arises from its fairs. Lat. 47. 41. 15. Long. 27. 31. 13. E.
RABANA, a sort of drum used in India as an accompaniment to the voice in singing.
RABASTENS, a city of France, in the department of the Tarn, and arrondisement of Caillac. It is situated on the right bank of the river Tarn, and is but poorly built, but in 1836 it contained 6966 inhabitants, who were employed in making woollen cloths, and producing some good wine. Lat. 43. 50. Long. 1. 37. E.
RABBETTING, in
Carpentry,
the planing or cutting of channels or grooves. In ship-carpentry, it signifies the letting in of the planks of the ship into the keel, which, in the rake and run of a ship, is hollowed away, that the planks may join the closer.
RABBIS, or Rabbin, a title which the Pliarisees and doctors of the law amongst the Jews assumed, and which literally signifies “ masters.” There were several gradations before they arrived at the dignity of rabbin, which was not con- ferred until they had acquired the profoundest knowledge of the law and the traditions. It does not, however, appear that there was any fixed age or previous examination necessary ; but when a man had distinguished himself by his skill in the written and traditional law, and passed through the subordinate degrees, he was saluted as rabbi by the public voice. Amongst the modern Jews, for nearly seven hundred years past, the learned men retain no other title than that of rabbin ; they have great respect paid them, and the first places or seats in the synagogues ; they determine all matters of controversy, and frequently pronounce upon civil affairs ; and they have even power to excommunicate the disobedient.
RABBINISTS, amongst the modern Jews, an appellation given to the doctrine of the rabbin concerning traditions, in opposition to the Caraites, who reject all traditions.
RABELAIS, Dr. Francis, immortalized by his Romance of
Gargantua and Pantagruel,
was born at Chinon, a little town of Touraine, in 1483. His father, Thomas Rabelais, is generally understood to have been an apothecary of that town, and proprietor of the farm of La Devi-nière in the neighbourhood, where, it is said, a great part of the romance was written. According to some biographers, however, he was a vintner in Chinon, and kept a cabaret there at the sign of the Lamprey. The probability is, that he combined both occupations, dealing in drugs and spices, “ and other things of great price ;” and also disposing of the wine produced upon his own property, a traffic very different in its nature from that suggested by the modern ideas of an apothecary and keeper of a cabaret. He was unquestionably a man of substance, and able to procure for his son an education of as high a character as was then to be obtained. He sent him to be educated by the monks of Seville, an abbey not far from Chinon, but the boy’s progress under their care was so unpromising, as to occasion his removal to the University of Angers, where he studied for some time at the convent of La Baumette, but apparently with no greater proficiency than before. It was at this esta-
blishment that he made the acquaintance of the brothers Du Bellay, one of them afterwards the celebrated Cardinal, a connexion which lasted through life, and ultimately proved of the greatest service to him. After passing through the usual preparatory studies, Rabelais was admitted into the order of Cordeliers at the convent of Fontenay-le-Compte in Poitou, where he assumed the religious habit. Here he prosecuted his studies with such zeal, as to retrieve any loss of time which indifference or injudicious tutors might previously have occasioned. Striking out of the usual routine of scholastic study, which then held undivided sway in the monastic houses, he applied himself, with unusual industry and research, to the cultivation of the sciences It was his aim, says Niceron, to become a grammarian, poet, philosopher, physician, jurisconsult, and astronomer, and his works bear ample testimony to his success. He possessed a peculiar aptitude for the acquisition of the languages ; an aptitude which afterwards showed itself in his command of Italian, Spanish, German, English, Hebrew, and Arabic. At this period, in fact, he was a perfect master of the Latin and Greek tongues, the latter of which had for some time been engaging the attention of the most enlightened spirits of the age. Within the walls of Fontenay-le-Compte, however, a Greek book was looked upon as no better than a work of magic, and the man who commanded the key to its secrets passed for a trafficker in “ the arts inhibited ;” and it appears, by a letter from Budæus to a friend, that Rabelais’ attachment to the Greek writers drew upon him the hatred and persecution of his fellow monks. His independence of spirit, and generous ardour in the pursuit of learning, which could not but be felt as a reproach to their own resolute ignorance, pedantry, and sloth, was continually furnishing fresh incentives to their rancour, and they omitted no opportunity of subjecting him to annoyance. Worn out by repeated aggressions, he followed the advice of his friends, and resolved to quit a society where he found so little that was congenial to his own disposition. It has been alleged, that the true cause of this step was his own profligacy ; but this is only the first of the many groundless charges against him, engendered either by the malice of his enemies, or originating in a misapprehension of his character as seen in his writings, namely, that of a man whose whole life was a noisy jest, a soulless round of sensual indulgences. Had such really been his character, as has been pertinently remarked by Père Niceron, “ these were not the days, when, for such a cause, he needed to have left his monastery ; he might have given free rein to his propensities there, and yet not have been going out of the ordinary course.” The authority of a churchman on such a point is conclusive.
In 1523, a brief was obtained from Pope Clement VII., allowing him to pass from the order of St. Francis into that of St. Benedict, and leaving this “pack of capuchins, monks, who forbade the use of beans, that is, Pantagrueline books,” to borrow a phrase from the prologue to the fifth book of his Romance, he entered the monastery of Maillezais in Poitou, where he remained during several years. But he appears to have found himself little better off in his present situation, than in that which he had left. It did not present him, it is said, with such resources as he desired for extending the limits of his knowledge, more especially as regarded medical science. His motives for this step were doubtless of a mingled nature, of which it is but reasonable to suppose the chief was a disgust at the torpor and profitless seclusion of a monastic life, by escaping from which he could alone hope to find opportunities for exercising bis stirring and strongly practical intellect in a field of action, observation, and experience, sufficiently ample for its desires. How, ever this may be, he laid down the regular habit for that of a secular priest, and quitted Maillezais without the sanction of his superior, a breach of ecclesiastical discipline which exposed him to its severest censures. After rambling about for some time in the diligent pursuit of medical knowledge, as he says himself in his petition to Pope Paul III. praying for absolution from the penalties incurred by his unauthorised retirement from Maillezais, he settled at Montpellier, after taking his physician’s degree at its university, and practised the medical profession there with credit and success. It appears by the dedication to Godefroy D’Estissac, bishop of Maillezais, of an edition of Hippocrates’s
Aphorisms,
and the
Ars Parva
of Galen, published by Rabelais in 1532, at Lyons, and highly esteemed by the medical and literary men of the time, that his lectures on physic at the university of that place had attracted considerable attention. Such, indeed, w'as the distinction he attained, that he was selected by the university as their deputy to procure a restitution of the privileges of which one of its colleges had been denuded by the chancellor Du Prat. The means employed by Rabelais for obtaining access to the chancellor have formed the subject of a story to be found in all his biographies ; but it is too obviously a fabrication from an incident in his own Romance, (the introduction of Panurge to Pantagruel, book ii. c. ix.) to be worth a place here. He succeeded in the object of his mission, and his services to the university were perpetuated in a custom, still, according to the
Biographie Universelle,
in existence, by which every candidate is required to put on Rabelais’ gown upon receiving his physician’s degree.
In 1533, we find him established at Lyons, where he was hospital physician, and taught and practised for several years. At the commencement of the year 1534, his old schoolfellow and friend, Jean du Bellay, then bishop of Paris, having occcasion to pass through Lyons on his way to the papal court, regarding the divorce of Henry VIII. of England, took Rabelais along with him in the capacity of his physician ; thus enabling him to realise, what had long been his passionate wish, a personal acquaintance with Italy and the Eternal City. For, to use the words of his dedication to Du Bellay of an edition of Marliani’s
Typogra-phia Antiques Roma,
published, under Rabelais’ superintendence, by Gryphius1 at Lyons, in 1534, “ from the first moment that I was able to appreciate the worth of polite learning, it was amongst the foremost of my desires to travel throughout Italy, and visit the capital of the Roman world.” The opportunity for gratifying the popular conceptions of his character, afforded by this visit of the great satirist of the abuses of the Romish church to the court of its supreme head, has not been let slip by the anecdote-mongers ; and several absurd stories of his conduct have accordingly been handed down from biographer to biographer, till they seem almost to have acquired the authority of undoubted truths. One specimen of these will be sufficient. When the Cardinal Du Bellay was presented to the Pope, he, as ambassador ofFrancis I., went through the usual ceremony of kissing his holiness’s slipper. His suite followed his example, all except Rabelais, who remained leaning against a pillar, and exclaimed loud enough to be heard, Thatifhis master, who was a great lord in France, were unworthy to kiss the pope’s feet, his holiness might untruss, and possibly, after reasonable abstersion, a part might be found, where an humble follower like himself might presume to apply his lips. The improbability, that Rabelais should have expressed himself in these terms, filling the situation which he did, and when, too, he was on the eve of supplicating a release from this very pope from the ecclesiastical penalties he had incurred by his unauthorised desertion of the monastery OfMaillezais, speaks sufficiently for the worthlessness of this story. But its real source is obvious enough, and may be found in book iv. c. 48. of his Romance. It needed but a poor invention to construct such a tale out of the extravagant devotion of the worthies that greeted Pantagruel and his band, on their arrival at the Island of Papimany. That, however, which, as told by Rabelais himself, is a stroke of the most caustic satire,
makes but a sorry jest in the hands of those who first built up a theory of his character according to an idea of their own, and then fabricated anecdotes to support and illustrate it. Rabelais’ judgment, it is certain, was quite as powerful as his wit ; and he knew too well when to discharge his bolt with effect, ever to let it fly where detriment to the archer himself could alone be the result. The veil of extravagance, which he has thrown over his great satirical work, is the best possible proof how unlikely he was to be guilty of any such piece of superfluous imprudence. At the same time, it is to be remarked further, in confutation of this particular Story, that it was to Clement VIL and not to Paul III., that Du Bellay must have been introduced in the capacity of ambassador on the occasion alluded to ; but, as invention and historical truth are two distinct things, this discrepancy in fact is not greatly to be wondered at.
Rabelais seems to have gone back to Lyons fora time, as his Epistle Dedicatory to DuBellay of his edition of Marham’s 
Antiquitates Romœ Antiquœ
is dated from that city on the 3lst of August 1534. He returned shortly afterwards to •Rome, and rejoined Du Bellay, who had been created Cardinal on the 21st of May 1535. His letters to Godefroy D’Estissac, whose favour he had won during his residence at his Abbey of Maillezais, and continued ever afterwards to retain, are dated from Rome during the two following years. Availing himself of the opportunity which his presence on the spot afforded, he petitioned Pope Paul III. to be absolved from the penalties incurred by the abandonment of his order. Rabelais’ merits had secured him the esteem of Cardinals de Genutiis and Simonetta, and they combined with Du Bellay and the BishopofMascon, in forwarding his petition. By their exertions a bull in his favour was obtained gratis, contrary to the usual practice. It was granted on the 17th of January 1536, in terms of his request, allowing him to return into any house of the Benedictine order that would receive him, and to practise physic upon condition of his doing so without hope of fee or reward. This release from the ecclesiastical disabilities consequent upon his transgression of the church’s rules enabled the Cardinal Du Bellay to assign him a place in his Abbey of St. Maur des Fossez, near Paris. Here he remained until the year 1542, when he was appointed by the same friend to the cure of Meu-don ; and he continued in the zealous discharge of the duties of this station down to the time of his death. “Ever mindful,” says Niceron, “ to instruct his people, he made it part of his care to give their children a knowledge of church music, of which he was himself a thorough master. His house was ever open to the poor and wretched, whom he assisted to the utmost of his means ; and he was in the habit of drawing men of learning and science about him, to discourse with them upon their several pursuits. Against women, however, his gates were barred, and his reputation on this score is wholly without blemish. This,” he adds, “ is the uniform testimony of contemporary biographers ; and Antony Le Roi, who wrote a life of him in 1649, avers that such was then the prevailing tradition at Mendon. His knowledge of medicine rendered him doubly useful to his parishioners, who invariably found him ready to minister to their wants both corporal and spiritual.” He died in Paris, in 1553, in the Rue des Jardins, parish of St. Paul, and was buried in the cemetery of that church.
His death-bed has not escaped profanation by the caterers for the jest-books ; and there are few stories more common, than his calling for his domino, when he felt his end approaching, with the words, “ Beati qui in Domino moriuntur.” Another anecdote, even more detrimental to his character, is in every-day circulation, by which he is reported to have replied to a page sent by Du Bellay to inquire after his health, “ Tell your master the state you find me in ; I am going in quest of a Great Perhaps. He is up in the jay’s nest· Bid him keep where he is ; and for you, you will never be anything but a fool. Draw the curtain ; the farce is ended.” Those who have read Rabelais’ spirit aright need no confutation of this slanderous fabrication of monkish malice, the miserable patchwork from some half-dozen threadbare facetiæ. The simple fact recorded by Du Verdier, is worth a thousand such tales ; and it determines, if, indeed, such evidence were necessary, Rabelais’ opinion as to the momentous doctrine which he is here represented to have viewed as no more than “a great perhaps." In a copy of Galen, annotated throughout in the handwriting of Rabelais, that had come into the Bishop of Evreux'β possession, opposite a passage in which Galen argues for the mortality of the soul, Rabelais had wτitten, “ Hic vero Galenus se plumbeum ostendit.” Du Verdier also states, whilst at the same time he retracts what he had formerly been led, in accordance with the popular voice, to say against Rabelais in his
Bibliothèque Rranfaise,
that “ the manner of his death compels us to form a judgment of him totally at variance with that which is currently received.” The particular circumstances of this event are not now known, but they were doubtless such as became a pious and eminently thoughtful man.
One cannot help regretting, with Coleridge, “ that no friend of Rabelais, and surely friend he must have had, has left an account of him.” Had any such account existed, it would unquestionably have conveyed an impression of his personal character very different from that which the current anecdotes of him are calculated to produce. It is the peculiar misfortune of distinguished humourists to have the paternity of such jests as are tossing unclaimed about the world laid to their charge. They become a sort of Foundling Hospitals for Wit ; and Rabelais has had more than his share of this abandoned progeny thrust upon him. His reputation as a man has suffered accordingly, and this for an obvious reason ; for just in the degree that a great man’s mind is marked by features, which puzzle the finest sagacity to discriminate and reconcile, are people disposed to pronounce an authoritative judgment regarding him. In all such cases, a lively anecdote, or sparkling witticism, is too cheap and pleasant a method of settling a doubtful character, not to be generally adopted. They commonly fall in with the conclusion that lies nearest the surface, and, being thus most easily come at, they are eagerly caught up and borne along from mouth to mouth, till their mere repetition sanctifies the delusion out of which they sprung. One common character runs throughout all the anecdotes of which Rabelais is the hero. They show a mind without gravity or depth, giving head to its most wayward sallies, neglectfid of self-respect, and reckless of present circumstances, or of possible results. Such is just the character which a superficial observer is likely to form of him from his own romance. The rhodomantade, the coarseness, the downright nonsense, the reckless exuberance of humour, are easily noted ; whilst the vein of deep and earnest thought that ever and anon shows itself amid the surrounding extravagance, the infinite good sense, the high-toned and enlightened philanthropy, and the great moral purpose which the author had in view, escape the careless and unpenetrating eye. The vices, which he has laid bare with such masterly tact, have been set down as his own, and he is charged with having been a profligate, a debauchee, and a buffoon, destitute alike of self-respect, and reverence for whatsoever is sacred or noble. But every thing that is known of his life, as well as what may be inferred from a study of his works, goes to discountenance such a conclusion, He was beloved and respected by many of the most illustrious and virtuous prelates of his time, admitted into their most private councils, and charged with the most important trusts. All his works, except his romance, which, being a reflection of the time, must needs carry its grossness and licentiousness upon its front, are conceived in a uniformly grave and learned spirit; and in
his letters, where certainly a light or ribald mind was most ∙, likely to have shown itself, there is nothing to be found unworthy of the scholar and the churchman. These facts are utterly inconsistent with the charges of buffoonery, immorality, and irréligion, which are usually coupled with his name ; and who can doubt, that, had his life given any warrant for such charges, there were jealous enemies enough to have placed the fact beyond the uncertainty of mere as
sertion ?
In common with the other great assailants of religious abuses, Rabelais was branded with the names of heretic and atheist, and the Dedication of the Fourth Book of his Romance makes an indignant allusion to the circumstance. Epithets like these, however, he could well afford to share with such men as Erasmus, Luther, and Melancthon. Had he escaped them, indeed, there would have heen some cause for wonder ; for, assuredly, the severest blow ever levelled against the Roman Catholic church was the publication of the
Chronicle of the Wondrous Deeds of Gargantua and Pantagruel.
The popularity of its form secured it attention, where a formal censure would have been disregarded ; and it was read on every hand with unexampled avidity. Calvin spoke of part of it with asperity, but others of the reformers, penetrating its real spirit, gave it their warmest approval, and Beza’s well-known epigram has long graced every edition of the book.
Qin
sic nugatur, tractantem ut seria vincat,
Cum seria fa
ci
et dic, rogo, q
uantu
s e
rit ?
If be, wbo in bi
s
frolic mood
Outdoes the lore of toilsome sages,
Sbould don grave wisdom's reverend hood,
What might be looked for from his pages ?
“Beyond a doubt,” says Coleridge, “he was among the deepest as well as boldest thinkers of his age. His buffoonery was not merely Brutus’ rough stick, which contained a rod of gold ; it was necessary as an amulet against the monks and bigots. Never was there a more plausible, and seldom, I am persuaded, a less appropriate line, than the thousand times quoted
Rabelais laughing in bis easy cbair
of Mr. Pope. The caricature of his filth and zanyism proves how fully he both knew and felt the danger in which he stood. I could write a treatise in praise of the moral elevation of Rabelais’ work, which would make the church stare, and the conventicle groan, and yet would be the truth, and nothing but the truth. I class Rabelais with the great creative minds of the world, [Homer,] Shakspeare, Dante, Cervantes, &c.” The prevalent coarseness, though this even is not always without its meaning, of Rabelais’ great work, makes it repulsive to the mass of readers ; and this it is, probably, which has enabled modern writers to appropriate its thoughts and witticisms with impunity. But the richness of invention, the dramatic force of the characters, the originality and vigour of thought, the wit, the learning, the satire, poignant yet without cynicism, the wise philosophy, and the atmosphere of triumphant joyousness that invests the whole, justify the praises of Coleridge, and will secure its fame, as long as vice remains to be lashed, and folly to be ridiculed, or the love of genial humour, and far-sighted wisdom is not utterly extinct.
It is impossible not to admire the robust and healthy nature of the mind of Rabelais, which, at a time when earnestness was constantly running into extravagant excesses in the persons of the other great reformers of the period, maintained its equipoise, without losing any of its intensity in seizing and grappling with the predominant abuses. Nor is its moral culture less conspicuous, which, in an age when the face of society presented so much to impress a conviction of the farce and hollowness of the world, preserved him, in despite of his acute sense of the absurd, the false, and the contemptible, as well as of his strong satirical bias, from becoming a morbid and misanthropical reviler of mankind. “ I ask not,” says Coleridge, “ the genius of a Machiavel, a Tacitus, ora Swift; it needs only a worldly experience, and an observing mind, to convince a man of forty, that there is no medium between the creed of misanthropy and that of the gospel.” Which of these, then, was Rabelais ? Most certainly the latter. II,e hates cant in all its shapes, hypocrisy underall its disguises; tyranny, intolerance, villainy, selfishness, and all its brood of tyrant vices, are hisabhorrence ; mere folly he makes his sport, and he dallies with absurdity with a very wantonness. But he never forgets, that he, the satirist, is himself come of the stock of Adam, or libels heaven, by flying in the face of that nature, which, good or bad, is all that himself and his fellow-men have got to struggle through the world with. He takes life as.it is ; he would fain see it better, and lends a helping hand to make it so. Like his great countryman Beranger.
De l’univers observant la machine,
Il
y
voit du mal, et n'aime que le bien.
He detests the evil that is in the world, but he never abandons his faith in the good. His satire is not the angry yelping of a currish nature, the overflow of sour secretions and accumulated bile. Where it is grave, it is the commanding voice of honest indignation ; where jovial, there is a kindliness of tone with it, that makes you like the man, whilst you admire his genius. He is essentially good-natured even in his severest moods ; and this is apparent in the very form of his satire. Its most caustic strokes are given with a merry voice and laughing eye ; and yet, whilst apparently revelling in the most unrestrained ebullitions of mere animal spirits, and licentious fancy, he is covertly stripping sensualism of its enticements, and enforcing the strongest lessons of humility. He possessed, in short, the wisdom of love, which is “ the creed of the gospel,” and this his book testifies in a hundred places. At the same time, its defects are great and manifold, and these cannot be better summed up than in the words of La Bruyère. “ Rabelais is inexcusable in having scattered mere filth throughout his writings. His book is a chimera. It is the face of a beautiful woman with the tail of a serpent, or of some other still more unsightly monster. It is a monstrous jumble of a fine and delicately wrought moral, and of the most offensive grossness. Where it is bad, it is as bad as can be,— the very scum of the world might batten on it ; where it is good, nothing can be more choice or excellent ; it
can
furnish most dainty fare.”
For bibliographical details as to the works of Rabelais, see
Biographie Universelle,
tome xxxvi. A careful memoir of him will be found in Niceron’s
Mémoires des Hommes Illustres,
and also in Chaufiepié’s Supplement to Bayle. Rabelais has been naturalised amongst ourselves, more successfully, perhaps, than any Otherforeign writer, by Sir T-Urqu-hart and Motteux’s admirable version of his romance. (B. F.)
RABBIT. See Mammalia.
RABIRIUS, C., a Roman knight, who lent an immense sum of money to Ptolemy Auletes, king of Egypt. The monarch afterwards not only refused to repay him, but even confined him, and endangered his life. Rabirius escaped with difficulty from Egypt; and at his return to Rome he was accused by the senate of having lent money to an African prince for unlawful purposes. He was ably defended by Cicero, and acquitted with difficulty.
In the age of Augustus, there was a Latin poet of the same name, who wrote a poem on the victory which the emperor had gained over Antony at Actium. Seneca has compared him to Virgil for elegance and majesty ; but Quintilian is not so favourable in judging his poetry.
RABNABAD, a low muddy island in the bay of Bengal, formed out of the sediment deposited by the river Gan-
ges, or by the Rabnabad, one of its branches, and separated from the mainland by a narrow strait. It is fifteen miles in length, by five in breadth, and at neap tide it is scarcely above water, whilst at high tides it is nearly submerged. It is covered with long grass and underwood, which affords cover for deer and tigers.
RABOGH, a village of Yemen in Arabia, near the coast of the Red Sea, and occupied by Arabs living in tents. It is seventy-eight miles north of Zidda.
RACCA, a town of Diarbekir, in thρ pachalik of Onafa, situated on the eastern bank of the Euphrates, at the mouth of a small river named Beles. It was once the favourite residence of Haroun al Raschid. The town and adjoining country are inhabited by different tribes of wandering Arabs. Long. 38. 50. E. Lat. 36. 5. N.
RACE, in general, signifies running with others in order to obtain a prize, either on foot, or by riding on horseback, in chariots, or otherwise. The race was one of the exercises amongst the ancient Grecian games, which was performed in a course containing one hundred and twenty-five yards ; and those who contended in the foot races were Irequently clothed in armour. Chariot and horse races also formed a part of the ancient games. ' Races were known in England in very early times. Fitzstephen, who wrote in the days of Henry II. mentions the great delight which the citizens of London took in this diversion. From his words, however, it does not appear to have been designed for the purposes of gaming, but merely to have sprung from a generous emulation of showing superior skill in horsemanship. Races appear to have been in vogue in the reign of Elizabeth, and to have been carried to such excess as to injure the fortunes of the nobility. George earl of Cumberland is recorded to have wasted more of his estate than any of his ancestors, and chiefly by his extreme love of horse-races, tiltings, and other expensive diversions.
Race, in genealogy, a lineage or extraction continued from father to son. See Descent.
RACHORE, a town and district of Hindustan, in the province of Bejapore. It is bounded on the north by the river Kistnah, and on the south by Tungbudra. The capital, of the same name, is pleasantly situated on the south back of the river Kistnah. Long. 78.52.E. Lat. 16.20. N.
RACHONTY, a town of Hindustan, in the Balaghaut ceded territory, and district of Gurrumcondah, 125 miles north-west of Madras. Long. 78. 49∙ 20. E. Lat. 18.26. N.
RACINE, John, a great and illustrious French poet, was bom at Ferte-Milon on the 21st of December. 1630. He was the son of John Racine, controller of the salt magazine of that city, and of Joan Sconin, daughter of the king’s warden of thewoods and waters OfVillers-Caterets. Deprived of his Iatherand mother at the early age of three, he passed under tile guardianship of his paternal grandfather, also named John Racine, who, not long afterwards, bequeathed the trust to his widow. He studied first at Beauvais ; next at Paris, in the college of Fearcount; and lastly at Port-Royal-des-Champs, whither a number of eminent persons had retired to devote themselves to piety and the instruction of youth, amongst whom were the advocate Lemaitre, Dr. Hamon, Nicole, Lacy, and Launcelot, authors of the
Logic,
the
General Grammar,
and other works, known under the title of
Me· thadxs de Port-Royal.
Launcelot, in particular, undertook to teach Greek to the youthful Racine. But besides the taste for sound literature and serious studies, these mn-mortal solitaries inspired their pupil with those religious principles which never abandoned him, and which were common to an the great writers and great men of that age. The docility of Racine towards his masters equalled his ardour for study. On one occasion, however, he showed himself refractory. Having accidentally met with the Greek romance of
Theagenes and Chariclea,
he commenced the perusal of this work of fiction, when his master surprising him, whilst thus engaged, took from him the book, and consigned it to the flames. The youth procured another copy, and learned it by heart, after which he placed it in the hands of Launcelot, saying, “ You may bum this also.” An act of disobedience of a kind so novel was the more readily excused because it was not likely to have many imitators.
The first poetical essay of Racine was
La Nymplte de la Seine,
an ode which he composed for the marriage of Louis XIV. and which having made him known to Chaplain, the temporary arbiter of literary reputations and court favours, produced him a hundred louis, which Colbert sent him on the part of the king ; and not long afterwards, he received a pension of six hundred livres. Four years later, towards the close of 1663, another ode,
La Renommée aux Muses, 
composed on the occasion of the establishment of the three Academies, procured for him a second royal gratuity, the order for which was couched in terms peculiarly flattering to the youthful poet. This ode, though inferior to the preceding, was nevertheless more fortunate. Recompensed, like the other, by the king, it had the good fortune to be criticised by Boileau. The poet took an early opportunity to thank the critic, and this proved the origin of that connexion so intimate, so honourable, so useful to Racine, and which was not one of the least advantages which fortune gave him over Corneille. A little before this period, Racine had made the acquaintance of Molière, and had communicated to him a tragedy, entitled
Theagene et Chari-clee,
taken from the romance, which had afforded him such delight at Port-Royal. Molière, disapproving of this production, gave him the plan of the
Thébaide, ou les Frères Ennemis,
a subject on which it is alleged that he had himself been engaged. Racine executed the design, and the piece had some success.
Alexandre,
which was performed the following year, 1665, met with a still more favourable reception, and showed great progress in the versification of the author, who was then only twenty-five years of age. But, excepting the verses, neither of these works gave any indication of what Racine afterwards proved. They were but feeble imitations of Corneille, of whom, by a misfortune common to all imitators, Racine had only adopted the defects ; that is, the cold gallantry mixed with heroism, the idle maxims, the metaphysical reasonings, and the elaborate declamation. Corneille, to whom Racine read his
Alexandre,
counselled him, it is said, to write no more tragedies. At a subsequent period the same advice was given to Voltaire by Fontenelle, after the reading of
Brutus.
But it is fortunate for letters that such counsels are never followed. Voltaire replied to Fontenelle by the production of
Zaire, 
and Racine responded to Comeille by that of his
Andro-maque.
Finding himself pursuing a wrong direction, he suddenly changed his route and took a different one, unknown perhaps even to Comeille himself. The latter had Ustonishedandsurprisedhisaudience; his young rival sought to move and to soften them. Pity appeared to him a tragic resource more active, more extensive, and of an effect more penetrating and less transitory, than admiration. He studied the human heart, its passions, its weaknesses, and its most secret recesses, and there he discovered a species of tragedy altogether new, of which he gave the first and probably most inimitable model
iη
∖
t
∖
s Andromaque ;
that one of all his tragedies which, without being the most perfect, produces the greatest effect on the stage, by the vigorous and just expression of the sentiments and characters, and by the alternations of hope and fear, of terror and pity, with which the poet agitates the soul.
The representation of the
Andromaque
in 1667, was followed almost every year by a new masterpiece. But at first Racine surprised the public by an excursion into the domain of Molière. The
Plaideurs,
imitated from the
Wasps 
of Aristophanes, is a comedy the plot of which is somewhat feeble and inartificial ; but in nature, truth, facility, and
gaiety, it is admirable, and its verses became so fixed in the ' general mind that they passed into proverbs. The piece was first represented at Paris in 1668, when it was indifferently received ; but it succeeded pretty well at Versailles, and the players, elated with the success, came to awaken Racine in the middle of the night, to communicate the good news. The noise of vehicles at such an hour, in the Rue des Marais, convinced first the neighbours, and next day all Paris, that justice had avenged itself on the author of the 
Plaideurs,
by causing him to be seized and sent to the Bastille. This pleasant mistake, and the knowledge which soon became general, that the comedy had obtained the suffrage of the monarch, conciliated the favour of the loyal Parisians ; and from that time the piece has continued in possession of the stage, privileged to extort a smile, perchance a laugh, even from the iron visage of justice herself It is not true, as has sometimes been said, that the
Plaideurs
is the work of several hands. Racine may have received from his friends hints or suggestions for some scenes, and borrowed from certain
hommes de palais,
or gentlemen of the robe, some formulas and expressions foreign to his habitual studies ; but the unity of the style and the general coherence of the whole are too perfect to be the work of any but one and the same hand.
The success of the
Andromaque,
which was only equalled by that of the
Cid,
had excited envy ; perhaps, also, it had rendered the public fastidious. In 1669,
Britannicus
was coldly received, and with difficulty reached the eighth representation. At first no one felt the truth, the depth, and the force displayed in the magnificent historical picture of Nero and his court. Boileau alone was struck with its merit, and hurrying to embrace Racine, he exclaimed, “ Voila ce que vous avez fait de mieux.” This great critic was not only useful to Racine in praising his performance, his severity was of full more service in inducing him to suppress two scenes which deformed his work ; one between Burrhus and Narcissa, at the commencement of the third act ; and another, in the fifth, in which Junia is brought back into the presence of Nero.
Britannieus
was followed by 
Berenice,
which, in some respects, is one of the most remarkable of Racine’s works. At the solicitation of the celebrated Henrietta of England, Racine and Corneille both treated this subject which is so little fitted for representation, neither being aware that the other was engaged upon it. Besides the pleasure of seeing two illustrious rivals unconsciously contending for the palm, this princess secretly promised herself another, in the treatment of the heroic separation of the two august lovers ; but a premature death deprived her of the pleasure she had anticipated, in witnessing this singιdar competition. Three words of Suetonius represent the subject of the piece :
Invitus invitam dimisit ;
too slight a foundation upon which to work, and in the case of Corneille, who was now old, an ungrateful task, far more dangerous to him than even to Racine. The two rival plays were represented towards the close of 1670 ; that of Corneille at the Palais-Royal, by the company of Molière, and that of Racine at the Hôtel de Bourgogne. Corneille’s totally failed ; that of Racine had thirty consecutive representations, during which it drew tears alike from the court and the city. The great Conde replied to some criticisms which were made in his hearing in the following verses of the piece itself :
Depuis cinq ans entiers chaque jour je la vois,
Et crois toujours la voir pour la première fois.
It has been said, and even zealous admirers of Racine have confessed, that
Berenice
was not a veritable tragedy. But, tragedy or drama, what signifies the title which maybe given to it, provided we be agreed that it is a miracle of art, and that never,
in
any piece, were greater difficulties more meritoriously overcome. The style possesses exquisite beauties in detail, and an inexpressible charm pervades the diction throughout.
Bajazet
appeared in 1672, and obtained immediate vogue, partly, no doubt, from the novelty of the manners and costumes, but in a greater degree, from admiration of the force and truth with which the poet had delineated the characters of Roxana and Acomat ; two real creations, which, in spite of all its faults, will make
Bgjazet
immortal. At the same time, there is not a little truth in the remark of Corneille, that though the costumes be Turkish, tlle characters are French.
Mithridate,
which was represented for the first time in January 1678, is, according to Lallarpe1 the work where Racine appears to have come nearest to Corneille in bringing on tlle stage the great personages of antiquity, as they are delineated in history. Few characters, indeed, have, upon the whole, been more vigorously traced than that of Mithridates ; and were it not that Racine, sacrificing to the taste of the time, has made the hero amorous and jealous, Corneille would not have enjoyed unquestioned supremacy in reviving and reanimating history. Voltaire regards 
Iphigénie,
first represented in 1674, as the masterpiece of the stage. Do we desire grandeur? We find it in Achilles. Do we wish for true policy ? It is exemplified in the part of Ulysses ; a policy founded solely on the love of the public good, and equally adroit, dignified, and resolute. Clytem-nestra is the model of the lofty pathetic; Iphigenia, that of noble and touching simplicity. Agamemnon is as he should be ; and, then as to the style, Voltaire has declared it to be the true sublime. Three years elapsed between tile appearance of
Iphigénie
and that of
Phèdre,
which was first represented in 1677. The former had been the object of sundry ill-natured and depreciatory criticisms; but all these were only a feeble essay, or rather a mere foretaste, of the attacks which were now directed against the latter, chiefly at the instigation of the Duke de Nevers and tlle Duchess de Bouillon, nephew and niece of Cardinal Mazarin, the declared enemies of Racine, though for what reason does not appear. Every engine was put in action to ensure the condemnation of Racine’s
Phèdre,
and extol to the skies that of Pradon, a person of no genius, and whose name is not worth remembering, except that he was employed by the chiefs of his odious cabal to have a drama on the same subject ready for representation against the time when Racine’s was to appear. Pradon lent himself to the vengeance of these intriguers ; his
Phèdre
was represented four days after that of Racine ; and, for the moment, the cabal were successful. But, in about a year, each piece found its natural level, and Pradon and his
Phèdre
were alike forgotten or despised.
This tardy reparation, however, could not console Racine ; and, besides, it was poisoned by new indignities, which were heaped upon him by his indefatigable enemies. Disgusted with the theatre, where he had met with such injustice, he now determined to renounce it for ever ; though not more than thirty-eight years of age, and still in all the vigour and maturity of his genius. Besides, in his infancy, he had imbibed a deep sense of religion, which, suppressed for a while by his connexion with the theatre, now returned in full force. He conceived that his past life had been full of errors, nay, even tainted by vices, and, under this impression he not only resolved to write no more plays, but had even thoughts ofdevoting himself to penitence and prayer in monastic solitude. His spiritual guide, however, justly distrusting a zeal springing out of wounded feelings, advised him to marry and settle in the world; and this judicious advice Racine had the good sense to comply withal. In tlle year 1677 he married the daughter of the treasurer of Amiens, a fortunate choice, which greatly contributed to his future happiness. He next effected a reconciliation with the solitaries of Port-Royal, whose censures of dramatic composition, which had formerly offended him, he now acknow-
ledged. He first made his peace with Nicole, who received him with open arms ; and Boileau introduced him to Ar-nauld, who also embraced him tenderly, at the same time freely forgiving him all his satire. About the same time Louis XIV. appointed Racine and Boileau historiographers of France, upon the understanding, of course, that they were to write the history of his reign ; and the public expected great things from two writers of such distinguished reputation. But both the king and his subjects were equally disappointed. Boileau and Racine, after having for some time laboured at the work, perceived that it was entirely opposite to the genius of each ; and they also judged, with reason, that the history of such a king could not, and indeed ought not, to be written until long after his death, unless it were to be made up of extracts of gazettes and such like materials.
During a period of twelve years, Racine had steadily adhered to his resolution not to write any more poetry, especially for the stage; but the entreaties of Madame de Main-tenon so far prevailed as to induce him to resume his dramatic character, and in consequence he composed his
Esther,
which was to be represented, not on the French stage, but in the house of Saint-Cyr. On the 20th of January 1689, it was performed for the first time, and had prodigious success. “ It appears to me very remarkable,” says Voltaire, “ that this tragedy should then have had universal success, and that two years afterwards
Athalie,
though performed by the same persons, had none. It happened quite otherwise when these pieces were acted at Paris long after the death of the author, and when prejudice and partiality had ceased. 
Athalie,
represented in 1717, was received, as it deserved to be, with transport; whilst
Esther,
in 1721, inspired nothing but coldness, and never appeared again. But at that time there were no courtiers who complaisantly acknowledged Esther in Madame de Maintenon, and with equal malignity saw Vashti in Madame de Montespan, Haman in M. de Louvois, and above all, the persecution of the Hugonots by this minister, in the proscription of the Hebrew’s.” The same writer, who had no taste for scriptural subjects, thinks the story of
Esther
uninteresting and even improbable ; “ but, notwithstanding the badness of the subject,” he adds, “ thirty verses of
Esther
are of more value than many tragedies which have had great success.”
Athalie,
composed, like Esther, for Saint-Cyr, had, as already intimated, a very different fate. Envy masked under a false zeal prevented the representation. It was only performed twice at Versailles, in a chamber without scenes and costumes, by the ladies of Saint-Cyr. Racine having Originallyintended it for publication, now sent it to the press; but, to the eternal disgrace of the age and nation, this masterpiece of sublime genius, unsurpassed either in ancient or in modern times, found no readers ; and, in some societies of pretended wits, the perusal of it was ironically prescribed as penance. It is in truth lamentable to think that Racine should have descended to the grave suffering under this injustice, and w'ith the bitter feeling of seeing his age dissatisfied with his immortal work. In vain did Arnauld, from the depth of his solitude, try to sustain, by his suffrage, the sinking spirits of his old pupil; in vain did Boileau repeat, “ C’est votre meilleur ouvrage, le public y reviendra.” Racine almost believed that he had survived his genius, and the authority of Boileau, so potential with posterity, was disregarded during the lifetime of his friend. This second injustice of the public towards Racine reopened the wound inflicted by the first, completed his disgust, and decided him to abandon definitively writing for the theatre, which, in fact, his religious impressions had, for some time, led him to regard as incompatible with the Christian life. He accordingly withdrew' from all connection with the stage, and employed the remainder of his days in the grateful and almost filial task of composing a history of Port-Royal, the place of his education, which is drawn up with equal taste and elegance, but was not published till 1767, wdlen it appeared in two volumes 12mo.
Racine, although he had conversed much with the court, had not learned to disguise his βentiments, the usual, perhaps the necessary accomplishment of a courtier. In 1697, during one of those interviews which Madame de Mainte-non frequently granted him, the conversation having turned upon the misery of the people exhausted by long wars, and the best means of affording them relief, this celebrated woman entreated the poet to throw his ideas on the subject into the form of a memoir, promising that the writing should not pass out of her hands. Racine consented, not from the mere complaisance of a courtier, and still less from any ambitious view’, which the whole tenor of his life contradicts, but solely with the design of being useful. The king surprised this memoir in the hands of his mistress, and the name of the author was disclosed. Perhaps the lesson was a little too direct, since the monarch, who had all along favoured the poet, immediately took offence. “ Because he makes good verses,” said Louis, “ does he think he knows every thing ? and because he is a great poet, does hepretend to be a statesman ?” Racine was greatly hurt by this observation, not from any selfish consideration, but from the idea of having unnecessarily offended his royal benefactor. But to say as some have done, that it shortened his days, is manifestly absurd. His constitution had for several years been sinking under the wasting influence of excitement, and, in consequence, the term of his earthly career was now fast approaching. During his last illness, however, the king evinced the greatest interest in the expiring poet, about whom he daily sent to make the most anxious inquiries ; and his benefits followed him even beyond the tomb. Racine died on the 22d of April, 1699, after much suffering, borne with truly Christian fortitude, and was interred, according to his wish, at Port-Royal, at the feet of Dr. Hamon, that he might not be separated even in death, from the master whom he so loved and respected in life. After the destruction of this monastery, his remains were transported to Paris, and deposited in the church of Saint-Etienne-du-Mont, where they were placed beside those of Pascal.
Racine was naturally melancholy when alone, though gentle and pleasing with others. His nature was tender and affectionate, inclined to indulge sorrowful or religious emotions rather than those which spring out of mirth or joy. He w’as generous, and knew how to preserve the means of being so by much order and economy. He afforded assistance to a number of distant relations, and had a regard almost filial for his nurse, whom he did not forget in his will. There was no better husband, no more affectionate father. The Christian education of his children formed his chief concern. He had family prayers daily, at the same time reading and explaining a portion of the gospel to his wife, his children, and his domestics. During the last ten years of his life, all his pleasures, and all his happiness were concentred in his domestic circle. He no longer went to court except when called thither by the duties of his charge, and the interests of his family ; and yet who else could boast of the same meansof pleasing and making himself beloved ; his fine and noble figure, his gracious manners, all the charms of wit, all the splendour of renown, united with the happy art of causing them to be forgotten ? He was, indeed, what the ladies of Saint-Cyr described him, a man of great genius and great simplicity ; and he had, in fact, enchanted the world, more by the amenity and grace of his instructions, than by his talent for declamation, which, however, he possessed in the very highest degree. No man of his time read and recited better than Racine. One day, at Boileau’s, in his house at Anteuil1 reading and translating off-hand the
(Edqrus
of Sophocles, he drew tears from all present. He also taught Baron and La Champmale a system of declamation more conformable to nature and good taste, or. to express it
more correctly, he taught them to speak and not to declaim.
Asto his works, his countrymen have reason to beproudof them. He is the poet of theheart and the affections, and yields to none in the truth, the beauty, and the force of his delineations. If Corneillesurpassed him in heroic sentiments, and the grand character of his personages, he was inferior to Racine in moving the passions, and in purity of diction. Such is the perfection of Racine in this last respect, that in all his pieces, there is not perhaps, we do not say a scene, but even a single verse, which could be replaced by another. All is just and true ; all is full of that poetry of images and sentiments, and that continued elegance which, since the time of the Greeks, Virgil and Racine have alone possessed. But above all, it is in
Esther
and in
Athalie,
particularly in the choruses of these two tragedies, that, sustained by the most sublime models, he is himself almost always sublime. It is there that Racine has all the elevation of a Hebrew prophet, who had come to announce divine truths in strains almost divine. But that which chiefly characterises Racine is the complete union, perhaps unique, of two qualities which appear to be incompatible ; of imagination the most brilliant, and reason the most perfect, of sensibility the most exquisite, with good sense the most invariable. Reason, in fact, as much and even more perhaps than imagination, predominates in the conception of his most touching productions, in the execution of his most dramatic scenes, in the choice of his richest expressions, and in his boldest combinations, as well as most elliptical turns. Boileau, who has been surnamed the poet of reason, is not, even in this view, superior to Racine ; and, besides, the quality here mentioned is the less astonishing in him, because it is accompanied with an imagination much less lively. Racine has often been pronounced the greatest of the French poets. He should also be set down as the most rational ; or rather, it is precisely because he really is the most rational, that he is likewise the greatest.
There are some smaller pieces of Racine which hate not been mentioned in the course of this article, particularly Idylle sur la Paix, 1685 ; Discours prononcé à l’Académie Française, en 1685 ; Cantiques Spirituelles, 1689 ; and Epigrammes Diverses. The most complete edition of the Works of Racine is that which M. Aimé Martin published at Paris in six vols. 8vo. in 1820, reprinted by Lefèvre in 1822.
RACING, the riding heats for a plate, Orotherpremium. The amusement of horse-racing, which is now so common, was not unknown amongst the great nations of antiquity, nor wholly unpractised even by our ancestors in Britain. In 1599, private matches between gentlemen, who rode their own horses, were very common; and in the reignof James I. public races were established at various places, when the discipline, and mode of preparing the horses for running, were much the same as they are now. The most celebrated races of that time were called bell-courses, the prize of the conqueror being a bell ; and hence, perhaps, is derived the phrase “ bearing the bell,” when applied to excellence. For a full account of the race-horse, see Hokse.
RACK, Edmund, a person well known in the literary world by his attachment to, and promotion of, agricultural knowledge. He was a native of Norfolk, and a Quaker. His education was common, and he was originally apprenticed to a shopkeeper. In this situation his society was select, and by improving himself in learning, his conversation was enjoyed by some respectable acquaintance. Hewrote many essays, poems, and letters, and some few- controversial tracts. His last engagement was the History of Somersetshire, where the parochial surveys were his. This work, in three volumes 4to. was published in 1791, by his colleague, Mr. Collinson. Mr. Rack died of an asthma in February 1787, aged fifty-two.
Rack, an engine of torture, furnished with pulleys, cords, and other means, for extorting confession from criminals. The trial by rack is unknown to the law of England ; though once, when the Dukes of Exeter and Suffolk, and other mi-nistersofHenryVI.hadformedadesign to introduce the civil law into this kingdom as the rule of government, they erected a rack for torture, which was called in derision the Duke of Exeter
, s Daughter, and still remains in the Tower of London, where it was occasionally used as an engine of state, not of law, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. But when, upon the assassination of Villiers duke of Buckingham, by Felton,itwas proposed in the privy council to put the assassin to the rack in order to discover his accomplices, the judges, being consulted, declared unanimously, that no such proceeding was allowable by the laws of England. It seems astonishing that the usage of administering the torture should be said to arise from tenderness to the lives of men ; and yet this is the reason assigned for its introduction in the civil law, and its subsequent adoption by the French and other foreign nations, namely, because the laws cannot endure that any man should die upon the evidence of a false or even a single witness, and therefore contrived this method that innocence should manifest itself by a stout denial, or guilt by a plain confession ; thus rating a man’s virtue by the hardiness of his constitution, and his guilt by the sensibility of his nerves. The Marquis of Beccaria, in an exquisite piece of raillery, has proposed this problem, with a gravity and precision that are truly mathematical : “ The force of the muscles and the sensibility of the nerves of an innocent person being given ; it is required to find the degree of pain necessary to make him confess himself guilty of a given crime.”
RACKOKE, one of the Kurile isles, about 13 miles in length, and the same in breadth. Itcontainsan active volcano.
RaCONIGHI, a city of the province of Saluzzo
1 in the kingdom of Sardinia in Italy. It is situated on the river Maira, where there is a magnificent palace of the Prince Car-ignan. It contains four monastic and two parish churches, and 1300 houses, with 11,200 inhabitants, who produce silk, and make it into various articles, and have also a considerable trade in corn, as well as in raw and organzined silk.
RADCLIFFE, Mκs. Ann, the celebrated author of the
Romance of the Forest,
and the
Mysteries of Udolpho,
was born in London on the 9th of July 1764. She was the daughter of William and Ann Ward, who, though in trade, were respectably connected, and nearly the only persons of their two families not living in handsome, or at least easy independence. Her paternal grandmother was a Chesel-den, the sister of the celebrated surgeon, of whose kind regard her father had a grateful recollection ; and her maternal grandmother was Anne Oates, sister of Dr. Samuel Jebb of Stratford, the father of Sir Richard, on which side she was also related to Dr. Halifax, bishop of Gloucester, and to a gentleman of the same name, who was physician to the king. Ofthe history of her early years, during which the mind usually gives indications of its prevailing tendencies, no record whatever has been preserved. About the time of her twentieth year, however, she is described as possessing a figure exquisitely proportioned, a fine complexion, a beautiful and expressive countenance, and tastes which led her to take delight in contemplating the glories of creation, particularly the grander features they display, listening to music skilfully performed, hearing passages from the Greek and Latin classics recited and translated, and preferring the pleasures of meditation to those of society.
Thus respectably born and connected, Miss Ward, at the age of twenty-three, acquired the name which she subsequently rendered so celebrated, by marrying Mr. William Radcliffe, a graduate of Oxford, and then a student of law. This gentleman, however, renounced the prosecution of his legal studies, and afterwards became proprietor and editor of the
English Chronicle.
Mrs. Radcliffe having thus a
strong inducement to cultivate her literary powers, first came before the public as a novelist in 1789, two years after her marriage, and when she was yet only twenty-five years of age. The romance which she then produced, however, gave but a faint indication of the eminent powers afterwards displayed by the author. In the
Castles ofAthlin and Dun-bayηe,
the scene is laid in Scotland during the dark ages, but without any attempt to delineate the peculiar manners or scenery of that country ; and although we may trace some germs of that talent for the wild, the romantic, and the mysterious, which she afterwards employed with so much effect, yet, on the whole, this production cannot be regarded as at all worthy of her pen. Mrs. Radcliffe’s genius, however, was more advantageously displayed in the
Sicilian Romance, 
which appeared in 1790, and attracted a considerable share of public attention. This work displays the exuberant fertility Ofimagination which formed the principal characteristic of the author’s mind. Adventures heaped on adventures, in rapid andbrilliantsuccession,withall the hair-breadth charms of escape or capture, hurry the reader along with them ; whilst the imagery and scenery by which the action is relieved, resemble those of a splendid oriental tale. Still the work bore marked traces of the defects incident to an unpractised author. The scenes were inartificially connected, and the characters hastily sketched, without any attempt at individual distinctions ; the staple materials consisted of ardent lovers and tyrannical parents, with domestic ruffians, guards, and others, who had wept or stormed through the scenes of romance, without much change of character or features, for half a century before. Nevertheless, this praise may be claimed for Mrs. Radcliffe, that she was the first to introduce into her prose fictions a beautiful and fanciful tone of natural description and impressive narrative, which had hitherto been exclusively applied to poetry. Her style was as full of imagination as her subject, and she established a clear title to be considered as the first poetess of romantic fiction, that is, taking poetry in its true acceptation, apart from the mere accessory of rhythm.
The Romance of the Forest
appeared in the year I
Zifl,
and at once raised the author to that pre-eminence in her own style of composition, which her works have ever since maintained. In this new effort, her fancy was more regulated, and subjected to the fetters of a regular story. The characters, too, were depicted with skill far superior to that which the author had hitherto displayed, anil the work attracted the public attention in proportion. That of La Motte, indeed, is sketched with particular talent, and the interest of the piece mainly depends upon the vacillations of a character, which weakness and vice are at every moment on the point of rendering an agent in the greatest atrocities. He is the exact picture of the needy man who has knowτl better days ; one who, spited at the world, from which he had been driven with contempt, and condemned to seek an asylum in a desolate mansion full of mysteries and horrors, avenges himself by playing the gloomy despot within his own family, and tyrannising over those who were subjected to him only by their strong sense of duty. The heroine, too, has some pleasant touches of originality, which she displays in her grateful affection for the La Motte family, and her reliance on their truth and honour, when tlιe wife had become unkind, and the father treacherous. But this was not the department of art on which Mrs. Radcliffe’s popularity rested. “ The public,” says Sir Walter Scott, “ were chiefly aroused, or rather fascinated, by the wonderful conduct of a story, in which the author so successfully called out the feelings of mystery and awe, while chapter after chapter, and incident after incident, maintained the thrilling attraction of awakened curiosity and suspended interest. Of these every reader felt the force, from the sage in his study, to the family group in middle life, which assembles round the evening taper, to seek a solace from the toils of ordinary existence, by an excursion into the regions of imagination. The tale was the more striking, because varied and relieved by descriptions of the ruined mansion, and the forest with which it is surrounded, under so many different points of view’, now pleasing and serene, now gloomy, now terrible ; scenes which could only have been drawn by one to whom nature had given the eye of a painter, with the spirit of a poet.”
In 1798 Mrs-Radcliffe visited the scenery on the Rhine, and it is supposed that the
Mysteries of Udolpho
were written, or at least corrected, after the period of this journey ; the mouldering castles of the robber-chivalry of Germany, situated on the romantic banks of that celebrated stream, having, it is thought, given a bolder flight to her imagination, and a more glowing character to her colouring. The scenery on the Lakes of Westmoreland, which Mrs. Radcliffe had about the same period visited, was also calculated to awaken her fancy; nature having in these wild but beautiful regions, realised the descriptions in which she delighted toin-dulge. Her remarks upon the countries through which she travelled were given to the public in 1793, under the title of a
Journey through Holland,
&c. This, however, was merely a sort of intercalary production. As already hinted, her next effort in the province of romance, was the
Mysteries of Udol-pho,
Of this much was of course expected ; and the booksellers felt themselves authorised in offering for the work, what was then considered as an unprecedented sum, namely, L.500. But although a writer’s previous reputation often proves the greatest enemy he has to encounter in a second attempt upon public favour, yet Mrs. Radcliffe’s popularity stood the test, and was enhanced rather than abated by the
Mysteries of Udolpho.
“ The very name,” says Scott, “wasfascinating; and the public, who rushed upon it with all the eagerness of curiosity, rose from it with unsated appetite.” Theauthor pursuing her own favourite bent of composition, and again waving her wand over the world of wonder and imagination, had judiciously employed a spell of broader and more potent command. Every thing in the 
Mysteries of Udolpho
is on a larger and more sublime scale than in the
Romance of the Forest.
The interest is of a more agitating and tremendous nature ; the scenery is of a wilder and more terrific description ; the characters are distinguished by fiercer and more gigantic features. “ Mon-toni, a lofty-souled desperado, and captain of Condottieri, stands beside La Motte and his Marquis, like one of Milton’s fiends beside a witch’s familiar. Adeline is confined within a ruined mansion-house ; but her sister-heroine, Emily, is imprisoned in a huge castle, like those of feudal times. The one is attacked and defended by bands of armed banditti ; the other only threatened by a visit from constables and thief-takers. The scale of the landscape is equally different ; the quiet and limited woodland scenery of the one work, forming a contrast with the splendid and high-wrought descriptions of Italian mountain grandeur which occur in the other. In a word, the
Mysteries of Udolpho
was, at its first appearance, considered as a step beyond Mrs. Radcliffe’s former work, high as it had justly raised her ; and this impression has been confirmed by subsequent comparative perusal.”
The next'production by which Mrs-Radcliffe arrested the attention of the public, was destined to be her last. The
Italian,
which appeared in 1797, was purchased by the booksellers for L.800, and favourably received by the public. Sir Walter Scott praises the author for her judgment “ in taking such a point of distance and distinction, that wlιile employing her own peculiar talent, and painting in the style of which she may be considered the inventor, she cannot be charged with repeating or copying herself.” But mere change of subject, or taking a point of distance and distinction, as remote as possible from the scenes in which her imagination had previously expatiated, does not necessarily imply originality of invention in the construction and
development of her story. On the contrary, she selected a species of machinery afforded her by the most vulgar conceptions entertained of the Catholic religion, when established in its paramount superiority ; and instead of contemplating it calmly as reflected in the glass of history, she adopted all the conventional and ready-made horrors that came in her way; and had thus at her disposal the usual apparatus of monks, spies, dungeons, the mute obedience of the familiars of the Inquisition, and the dark, domineering spirit of the crafty emissaries of Rome. “ This fortunate adoption,” as Sir Walter Scott calls it, “ placed in the hands of the authoress, a set of agents powerful enough to act forcibly on imaginations in which they were associated with all imaginable kinds of atrocity and wickedness, and furnished at once the means of producing a strong effect, without the trouble of inventing new characters, or creating original combinations. But it may be questioned whether such agents, with all their conventional attributes, were suited to the purposes for which they were employed, or whether, evcn by their instrumentality, any tinge of probability could be imparted to those parts of the story which are most at variance with the ordinary course of human actions and events.” The
Italian,
however, was well received by the public, to whom delineations which flatter their religious prideorhatred are always welcome; and afteritspublication in 1797, the world were not favoured with any more of Mrs. Radcliffe’s works. “ Like an actress in full possession of applauded powers, she chose to retire from the stage in the very blaze of her fame ; and, for more than twenty years, an imagination naturally so prolific, was, for reasons which we are left in vain to conjecture, condemned to inaction and sterility.”
The tenor of Mrs. Radcliffe’s domestic life seems to have been peculiarly calm and sequestered. She appears to have declined the notoriety which, in London society, usually attaches to persons of literary distinction ; and perhaps no author whose works were so universally read and admired, was so little known personally, even to the most bustling of that class who rest their pretensions to fashion upon the selection of literary society. She no doubt consulted her own feelings, happy in equally avoiding the stare of the curious or the scrutiny of the malignant. Nor did it at all disturb her domestic comforts, although many of her admirers believed, that from brooding over imaginary terrors, her reason had at length been overcome, and that the gifted author of the 
Mysteries of Udolpho
existed only as the inmate of a private madhouse. For this belief, however, there neither was, nor ever had been the most distant foundation ; although the rumour on which it was founded had been generally spread, and confidently repeated in print as well as in conversation. During the last twelve years of her life, Mrs. Radcliffe suffered from a spasmodic asthma, which considerably affected both her health and her spirits. This chronic disorder, however, at length took a more fatal turn, on the 9th of January 1823, and on the 7th of February ensuing, it terminated the life of this ingenious and gifted woman, at her own house in London.
Mrs. Radcliffe, considered as an author, is fully entitled to take her place amongst those who have been distinguished as the founders of a class or school. She led the way in a species of composition, which has since been attempted by many, but in which no one has attained, or even approached the excellencies of the original inventor. The species of romance which she introduced bears nearly the same relation to the novel that a melodrame does to the legitimate drama. It does not appeal to the judgment, by searching delineations of human feeling, nor stir the passions by scenes of deep pathos, nor awaken the fancy, by tracing out the Iiighcr marks of life and manners, nor excite mirth, by strong representations of the ludicrous or the humorous. It attains its interest neither by the path of comedy nor by
that of tragedy ; and yet it has, notwithstanding, a deep, decided, and powerful effect, gained by means independent of both ; in other words, by an appeal to the passion of fear, whether excited by natural dangers, or by the suggestions of superstition. The force of the production consists in the delineation of external incidents, whilst the character of the agents are entirely subordinate to the scenes in which they are placed, and only distinguished by such outlines as to make them seem appropriate to their respective situations. The persons introduced bear the features, not of individuals, but of the class to which they belong ; and if they be dressed in the proper costume, and converse in language sufficiently appropriate to their stations and qualities, nothing more is required. The primary object is the generation of awe and terror, and everything ministers to the production of this effect. It is enough if the characters be truly and forcibly sketched in outline ; they are accessaries rather than principals, and for the most part rather passive than active, so that in throwing upon them and their actions just enough of that dubious light which mystery requires, Mrs. Radcliffe does all that is requisite for the accomplishment of her object. It were easy to find fault with a proceeding like this, which, dispensing with scenes of passion such as those of Richardson, or delineations of life and manners, as in the pages of Fielding and Smollett, carries us back to the fare of the nursery, and gorges us with the wild and improbable fictions of an overheated imagination. And there might be some truth in this, if it were only predicated of the crowd of copyists who came forward as imitators of Mrs. Radcliffe, and assumed her wand, without having the power of wielding it with the same magical effect. But no author can be arraigned for the deficiencies of servile imitators, who present an obscure, distorted, and indistinct outline of what is in itself clear, precise, and distinct ; nor can it be truly said that the applause with which the romances of Mrs. Radcliffe were received, argued a great and increasing degradation of the public taste, the corruption of which is almost never the consequence of power and originality ; whilst the inferiority of the servile race is much more likely to put the style theyimitate out of fashion, than to engraftits peculiarities upon that of a nation. [See Sir Walter Scott’s 
Biographical Notice of Mrs Ann Radcliff'e.^
∖
∙    
(a.)
RADCLIFFE, Db. John, an English physician of great eminence in his time, was born at Wakefield in Yorkshire in 1650. He was educated at Oxford, and enrolled himself in the physical line; but it was remarked that he recommended himself much more by his ready wit and vivacity, than by any extraordinary acquisitions in learning. He began to practise at Oxford in 1675, but never paid any regard to established rules, which he censured whenever he thought fit, with great freedom and acrimony ; and as this drew all the old practitioners upon him, he lived in a state of continual hostility with them. He died in 1714 ; andifhe never attempted to write any thing himself, he has perpetuated his memory by founding a fine library at Oxford, to preserve the writings of other men.
RADE, sometimes called Bade by the Forest, a city of the Prussian government of Cleves, in the circle of Len-ncp. It is fortified, and having been burned down in 1802, has since been regularly built. It contains 510 houses, with 4950 inhabitants, diligently employed in manufactures of cloths, hosiery, serges, and hardware.
RADICAL, in general, something that serves as a basis or foundation. Hence physicians talk much of a radical moisture. In grammar, the appellation of
radical
is applied to primitives, in contradistinction to compounds and derivatives. Algebraists also speak of the radical sign of quantities, which is the character expressing their roots.
RADICLE, that part of the seeds of all plants which upon vegetating becomes their root, and is discoverable by the microscope.
RADIUS, in
Geometry,
the semidiameter of a circle, or a right line drawn from the centre to the circumference.
Radius,
in
Anatomy,
the exterior bone of the arm, descending along with the ulna from the elbow to the wrist.
RADNOR, NEW, a market and borough town in the county of Radnor, in South Wales, 159 miles from London. It was formerly defended by a strong castle at the entrance of the pass between the two hills in which it is built, but that was destroyed by Owen Glendower in the reign of Henry IV. It is still a borough, and has a market which is held on Saturday. The population was in 1801, 329 ; in 1811, 380; in 1821, 426 ; and in 1831, 472. It now returns one member conjointly with the boroughs of Knighton, Rhayadyr, Cefn-llys, and Crwclas.
RADNORSHIRE, an inland county of South Wales, bounded on the north by Montgomeryshire, on the west by the counties of Cardigan and Brecon, on the south-east by Herefordshire, and on the north-east by Shropshire. Its extremities from east to west are twenty miles, and from north to south twenty-four miles, as under. Its surface is computed to measure 426 square miles, or 272,640 English statute acres.
The population in 1811, amounted to 20,900 souls, in 1821 to 22,503, and in 1831 to 24,651, of whom 12,453 were males, and 12,198 females. The total sum charged to the property tax in 1811, under the heads of rents of land and tithes, was, for the former, L.88,250, and for the latter, L.9373. On comparing these numbers with the other returns of Great Britain, it appears that this county is the lowest in numerical population, except the county of Rutland ; although its annual rental is higher than either Anglesey or Merioneth.
This district of country continued under the jurisdiction of the Lords Marchers, until itobtained the privilegesof a county by act of Henry VIII., and was divided into the hundreds of Radnor, Knighton, Painscastle, Rhayder, Coluyn, and Ke-venlleece. By the same act it was also empowered to return two members to Parliament, one for the county, and one for the contributory boroughs of Radnor, Rhayder, Knighton, Knuclas, and Kevenlleece. The county is further divided into parishes and townships. The former are fifty-two in number, and are all in the diocese of St. David’s, except five, which are included in the English diocese of Hereford. New Radnor, said to have been at one period the principal town, is now a very poor village; it was an ancient borough by prescription, and has also had charters granted by Queen Elizabeth, and by George II.
Two-thirds of the whole area of the county are supposed to be unenclosed and uncultivated. An extensive mountainous tract, nearly in the centre, is usually called the Forest, though there is no reason to believe it was ever covered with trees. A part of this range still belongs to the Crown, although the forests of Radnor and Blathvagh have both been alienated, and are now held by Mr. Thomas Frankland Lewis, and Mr. Richard Price, as foresters. There is nothing remarkable in the circumstances or character of these mountains, the summit of which was ascertained by Colonel Mudge, to be 2163 feet above the level of the sea. Within their limits is a torrent, called by a name, which, when translated, is “ Water-break-its-neck,” that falls abruptly from a height of about 150 feet. The higher ranges produce only heath, but the sides and lower parts of the hills, which are less exposed to the winds, are entirely devoted to the pasturage of sheep and small horses. The north-western angle of the county is mountainous and unenclosed, and it was in the recesses of these wilds, that the British monarch, Vortigern, retreated from the Saxons. On the eastern and southern districts, the valleys are wider and more fertile, and abound with small rivulets; hut thehillsareless elevated, and are partially clothed with wood.
The soil of this country is as varied in quality as its position differs in elevation. A small portion of the southern angle is composed of the fertile red earth which prevails in the adjoining counties of Brecon and Hereford. The mountains upon the western side are chiefly of the primary slate rocks which abound in Wales; and the valleys between these and the forest have frequently a clayey substratum retentive of water. The forest, and the other subordinate hills connected with it, consist of a slatey rock, containing a portion of lime, which decomposes rapidly on exposure to the atmosphere. The valleys to the eastward of this range are chiefly of a fertile loamy soil, incumbent on an extremely absorbent gravel. The climate is wet and stormy, and the spring months are particularly cold and ungenial. It is, nevertheless, healthy ; there are no peculiar or prevalent diseases, and the inhabitants are robust and long-lived.
The principal river is the Wye, which enters the county at Savan y Coed, and flows to the south till it divides it from Brecon. Its tributary streams are the Elan, the Ithon, the Edda, and the Mackwy. The river Terne flows on the eastern border, and continues its course by Ludlow to the Severn. The Lug and the Arrow, in the more central parts, form considerable streams before they enter the county of Hereford. There are some small lakes or pools requiring notice only as contributing to the beauty of the scenery. These are, Llyn, I.lanbychllyn, Hendwell Pool, and Llyn-Gwyn. A cataract at Rhayader, was formerly an object much visited by travellers ; but the construction of a bridge has widened the channel, and deprived it of much of its remarkable character.
The agriculture of the county is gradually improving. Irrigation has long been practised to a considerable extent, and its effects on absorbent soils are found to be highly beneficial ; but the process is not conducted in the most scientific manner. Lime is abundantly used as a manure, and is chiefly supplied from a valuable stratum of rock near Old Radnor. The ploughing was usually performed by two oxen and two horses; but oxen are now seldom used, and the plough with two horses is in gradual adoption. The implements of husbandry are, for the most part, in a rude form. Most of the farms consist of an equal portion of arable and of grass land. The latter is generally appropriated to the dairy, and the young cattle are reared on the more hilly and barren spots. About one-fifth of the county is under the plough, and one-tenth meadow; the remainder is generally used for sheep walks.
In the mountainous districts the cattle differ little from those which are common in the principality of Wales, but in the more fertile parts, the Herefordshire breed prevails. The sheep are small, and when fattened, their mutton is excellent; the horses also are generally small, strong, and hardy.
There is little commerce carried on in this county, and the only manufactures are of flannels and coarse woollen cloths, which the inhabitants make for their own use. Cattle, sheep, horses, woollen, butter, and, from the southeast districts, a surplus of grain, are sent annually to the markets of England. The county is not known to contain any valuable minerals. A lead mine has been opened and abandoned, and, in some places, an uncertain belief has prevailed of the existence of copper. Various mineral springs are known, and Llandrindad is a place of resort on account of the medicinal qualities of its saline, sulphureous, and chalybeate wells. In several other parts there are similar springs, the properties of which have not been accurately ascertained.
In Radnorshire there are many vestiges of antiquity. The Abbey of Cwm Hir stood formerly in a singularly retired and romantic situation on the banks of a rivulet which runs into the Wye. A small vestige remains of a castle at New Radnor, which was assailed and destroyed “ by the irregular and wild Glendower,” previously to the battle noticed by Shak-speare, in the first part of Henry IV., when Mortimer was taken prisoner. It was fought at Pilleth in this county.
A Roman road, which reached from Chester to Caermartlien, traversed this county, entering its confines on the northern extremity, in the direction of Newtown, following the valley of the river Ithon, and crossing the Wye into Brecknockshire, near the town of Beulth. At Cwm, near Llan-drindad, the remains of a Roman station, on this road, are still discernible.    •"
The market towns, and their present population, in 1831, were as follow : Presteign, 1529; Knighton, 1259; Rhayader, 669.    
(g.)
RAFT, a sort of float, formed by an assemblage of various planks or pieces of timber, fastened together side by side, so as to be conveyed more commodiously to any short distance in a harbour or road than if they were separate. The timber and plank with which merchant-ships are laden, in the different parts of the Baltic sea, are attached together in this manner, in order to float them off to the shipping.
RAFTERS, in building, are pieces of timber, which, standing by pairs on the reason or railing piece, meet in an angle at the top, and form the roof of a building.
RAFUR, a town of Hindustan in the Mahratta territories, and province of Aurungabad, forty-three miles S.S.E. from Ahmednuggur. Long. 75. 20. E. Lat.18. 26. N.
RAGECS, a market town of Hungary, in the province of Hither Danube, and circle of Trentsin. It contains two churches, a synagogue, 490 houses, and 4560 inhabitants, who carry on the trades of sadlers and paper-makers. Near to it are warm baths, much frequented bv invalids. Lat. 49. 5. 35. Long. 18. 32. 25. E.
RAGMAN’S
Roll, so
called, as some think, from one Ragimund a legate in Scotland, who calling before him all the beneficed clergyman in that kingdom, caused them on oath to give in
the true value
of their benefices, according to which they were afterwards taxed by the court of Rome; and this roll, amongst other records, being taken from the Scotch by Edward I. was delivered to them in the beginning of the reign of Edward III.
RAGNIT, a town of the province of East Prussia, in the district of Gumbinnen. It is the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 466 square miles, and comprehends one city and six parishes, with 23,100 inhabitants. The town is on the river Memel, where that stream enters the Prussian from the Russian dominions. It contains 196 houses, with 2200 inhabitants, chiefly depending upon agriculture and internal trade. Lat. 55. 1. Long. 21. 56. E.
RAGSTONE, a coarse kind of sandstone which is used as a whetstone for coarse cutting tools. It is found in the hills about Newcastle, and in many other parts of England, where there are large rocks of it.
RAGULED, or
Ragged,
in
Heraldry,
jagged or knotted. This term is applied to a cross formed of the trunks of two trees without their branches, of which they show only the stumps.
Haguled
differs from
indented
in this that the latter is regular, and the former not.
RAGUSA. A circle in the Austrian province of Dalmatia, composed of what was formerly the independent state of that name, of the peninsula of Sabioncello, and of several islands on the shores of the Adriatic. It w'as formerly an aristocratical republic, with the peasants feudatories to the nobles; and its constitution was under the guarantee of the Sultan, of the king of the two Sicilies, and of the republic of Venice. When, in the course of the war, the French took possession of the district, the bondage of the labourers was lightened, and when it was ceded to Austria by the congress of Vienna in 1815, the freedom of all was secured. The circle is 1232 square miles in extent, and contains about 50,000 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name, the Rausium of antiquity. It is situated in a small bay which forms an excellent haven, from being protected by the island of St. Locromo. It is surrounded with walls, and the gates which, under the old aristocracy, were only opened a few hours each day, now constantly afford ingress and egress to strangers and inhabitants. There is a fine palace formerly the residence of the chief, the cathedral of a Catholic archbishop, several monasteries and churches for both Catholics and Greeks, a college, an hospital, 1280 houses, and 7450 inhabitants, who are employed in building ships, in manufacturing silk, and in making soap, snuff, and various cordials. There are belonging to the port more than 300 vessels, of which about thirty’ are equipped for distant voyages. This place is celebrated for having given birth to the celebrated Jesuit and mathematician Boscovich. Lat. 42. 36. 40. Long. 18. 6. 25. E.
Ragusa
is a city of the island of Sicily in the district of Noto, andintendencyof Liragosa. It issituated on an Alpine mountain, but watered by the river of its own name. The situation is tolerably salubrious, and 120 miles from Palermo. It contains 16,600 inhabitants, who make woollen cloths and some other goods, and have a considerable general trade. It was the ancient Hybla, and near to it are many remains of antiquity, and several caverns in which the celebrated honey is still to be obtained.
RAHABEK, a village in the desert part of Irak Arabia, near the Euphrates, on the road frequented by the caravans from Syria to Irak Arabia, 110 miles south-west of Mosul. Also a village of Diarbekir in Asiatic Turkey, on the Euphrates, fifty miles south of Kerkesich.
RAHALY, a town of Irak Arabia, ten miles distant from the Euphrates, and seventy miles N.W. of Meshed Ali.
RAHAPA, a small island in the eastern seas, near the east coast of Borneo. Long. 119-4. E. Lat. 4. 58. N.
RAH AT, a town of Hindustan, in the .province of Allahabad, and district of Bemdelarnel, forty miles N.N.E. from Chakerpoor. Long. 80. E. Lat. 25. 32. N.
RAHDUNPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Gujerat, and district of Werrear, belonging to a Mahom-medan chief, who formerly possessed a much more extensive territory. It con tains 6000 houses, 1400ofwhich are inhabited by shroffs or bankers, some of whom are possessed of property, and carry on an extensive commerce. It is well situated for commerce, and forms an emporium for the trade of Merwur and Cutch, though the road has of late years been infested by a tribe of robbers, called Coolies. The valuable caravans formerly travelled by this route ; but they are deterred by the danger of the road. The inhabitants are mostly engaged in agriculture, and they have brought the vicinity of the town into a high state of cultivation. They have no manufactories of any consequence, except one of very coarse cloth for the Coolies. This principality was founded by a Balvocky chief who came from Paakur ; and Shah Jehan built the wall in order to repress the invasions of the Coolies. When the Gurcowar compelled the father of the present nabob to resign his claims to Pattan and its nine dependent pergun-nahs, he was permitted to retain Rahdunpore, Manjepoor, and Sommee, which formed part of the original possessions of the family. Long. 71. 45. E. Lat. 24. N.
RAHOON, a town of Hindustan in the Sikh territories, and province of Lahore. It is situated about four miles west of the Sutlege river, and has a considerable manufacture of cotton cloths. During the height of the rains, the river here is above one and ahalf mile broad. FromRahoon,buffas and piece goods are carried to the fair at Hurd war, 115 miles south-east from thecityof Lahore. Long. 75.35. E. Lat.25. 53. N.
RAIE, a small town of Diarbekir in Asiatic Turkey, 118 miles south-west of Diarbekir.
RAILLERY, according to Dr. Johnson, means slight satire, or satirical merriment; and a beautiful writer of the last century compares it to a light which dazzles, but does not burn.
In treating of the construction and mode of working railways, we shall confine ourselves principally to those which are intended for the transit of passengers and goods, and which are now opening so vast a field for the improvement of the human race ; an improvement, in fact, entering into all the relations between man and man, and which no one, be he ever so sanguine, can venture to fix a limit to.
From the middle of the seventeenth century various contrivances have been in use for decreasing friction on roads, particularly near the collieries in the north, such as laying down tracks of wood and stone for the wheels of waggons; it having been found that the much greater quantity of work performed by horses on these tracks, or, in other words, the less number of horses required to do a given portion of labour, more than repaid the expenses attendant on forming the tracks. These, in general, gave way to the flat or tram rail, made of iron ; but the improvements were very slow, and at last were only applicable to certain circumscribed localities and materials for carriage.
Possessing little general interest, and chiefly benefiting individuals, the attention they attracted was principally confined to the parties immediately connected with them. But how different is the prospect now before us, since we have seen the magnificent creations of George Stephenson ? Pack-horses are still the only mode of transit for traffic in many parts of the world ; and within seventy years this was the general mode of conveyance for the carrying trade to Yorkshire and Lancashire from the west of England and Birmingham. In the year 1830, when the London and Birmingham railway was projected, the expense of constructing it was stated at L.6000 per mile with one line of rails, which were to be worked by horses, and warranted to go eight miles an hour ; now the public are complaining of going
only
twenty miles an hour, and we have a right to expect that, at no very distant period, this velocity will at least be doubled ; in fact, at the rate improvements have been advancingfor the last few years, we know not where to place a limit of increase in speed.
It is of these splendid creations that we havehere to speak. We shall shew the method of conducting a modern railway, from itsearliest commencement, through all its various stages in each department, both in and out of doors, up to the period of lts final completion ; and shall end by explaining the method of setting it in full operation, pointing out, in each division of the labour, those modes of proceeding which will most conduce to a satisfactory result, and marking those things which practice has shewn should be avoided ; collecting the contrivances and appliances which have been found useful, from whatever source they may be derived, and setting a beacon upon shipwrecks, that they may become other men’s landmarks.
Wllen a railway is proposed betw een any two places, the public want to know how to distinguish between a bubble speculation, got up by a few interested individuals, a crudely-formed and hastily-adopted, but really good project, and a line got up with care and attention through all its parts, shewing it to be the result of patient research and of matured judgment ; and according as inquirers find the following directions more or less attended to, they may place confidence in the scheme which is laid before them.
These undertakings generally begin with a few individuals interested in the line of railway proposed, when the project is honestly intended ; but the great mass of original proprietors are men of a speculative and adventurous turn
of mind, who enter into these concerns for the mere purpose of making money’. Ifthe thing succeeds, and the shares rise to a large premium, as they often do, the original holders realize the profits at once, by selling out, and then apply their surplus capital in other projects, with the same hope of gain. These people, by going out, make way for another class of proprietors, namely, those who look to their shares as a permanent investment, and hope to make by them a greater annual receipt than they can get in the public funds, or by any other means.
In the earlier stages the directors are generally self-elected. They should be men of local interest, rather than the lions who are too often found in these situations ; men who can influence members of Parliament in either house, conciliate landholders, get off the shares, &c., and, above all, they should be of regτdar and businesslike habits. After a few meetings, they will find out what are their respective qualifications, and can allot themselves into sub-committees accordingly ; some to look after the traffic, others the surveying, others tlle share list, others to attend to the canvassing along the line, &c. Almost their first duty will be to choose the secretary, the engineer, the solicitor, and the banker.
On the appointment of the first three much of the future success of the company will depend. The secretary should be a man of firmness and nerve, with conciliatory and gentlemanly manners ; of a strong habit of body, able to rough it out in travelling, and possessing a stock of scientific and mechanical knowledge. If he is a draughtsman so much the better, and he should have been habituated to command large bodies of men, and be able to make a public speech at a short notice. With these qualifications, habits of order, and plain common sense, he will be a most valuable man.
The engineer must be judged of by the works he has executed, either by himself or under the direction of a superior; the first, of course, being the most conclusive, but the second by no means to be neglected. Skill and genius may Oftenbeveryprominentin subordinate situations. Ofcourse, all other things being equal, one who has been employed on railways should be preferred to one who has not. The solicitor should, if possible, have been connected with a railway bill before, and should have not only ability, but zeal. The advantage of having one who bad been connected with a previous undertaking is obvious, and if he has had much experience in parliamentary business, so much the better; a local acquaintance amongst the landowners and residents along the line is also of much use.
Wesupposethat, prior to advancing even thus far, the promoters of the undertaking have travelled between the termini of the intended railroad, and have ascertained that there are no engineering difficulties of a marked character ; and from our present stage, if the share list be found to fill, we have next to ascertain the nature and quantity of the traffic, first, as to whether it will pay for a railroad at all, and secondly, for what kind of a railroad. These questions should be met openly and honestly, or the consequences will be most disastrous.
The proper way to gain a correct knowledge of the traffic along any given line of country is, first of all, to station a man by day and another by night for two or three weeks, to count all vehicles passing a given number of spots along the intended line, (these spots should be near the principal towns), leaving out the largest terminus, as, for instance, London, and keeping the men on that side of all the respec-
tive towns which is nearest the largest terminus. For this purpose memorandum-books should be famished them to note down all that passes. These should, at the end of their twelve hours’ beat, be digested into printed forms, where each class is to be placed in its proper column, and any remarks made, if necessary. The forms are then to be daily transmitted by post to the secretary, who should make it his business to ascertain that, by fairs, races, elections, or any other causes of local excitement, the traffic is not in an unusual state. He is then to consider attentively the returns he has received, discriminating that which would be available for the railway in question, from that which would not, and bring the whole series into one general total, under the head of “ direct traffic.” The men are also to make a return, as nearly as they can, of the number of persons travelling in each vehicle, the quantity of goods in each waggon, van, cart, &c., distinguishing the nature of it, when practicable ; also the number of all kinds of cattle passing the road, and where all the various passengers and goods are being conveyed to, as far as can be ascertained.
A similar series of observations must be carried on along the canals, if any, which lead from those parts of the line likely to become available for the intended railway, distinguishing the nature and quantity of the traffic. Most canal-boats are marked at the head and stern with the draught of water ; and by finding out what they sink for every half-ton, a sufficiently near estimate may be found of the weight they carry. In certain situations the entries at the custom-house will be useful auxiliaries ; the returns from clerks of markets will often materially assist as checks, as will also the rental of the various turnpikes ; and no means are to be neglected to obtain a fair and honest statement of the general traffic in actual existence along the proposed line.
The next object is to find out what will be the probable increase on this existing traffic, when it shall be carried so much quicker and cheaper by a railway. The usual method of doing this has been to assume some ratio of increase, deduced from other undertakings of a similar nature, and two to one have been considered rather under than over the truth ; but when it is remembered that the increase of passengers, these being the main contributors to a railway, has been, in all proportions, up to eighty to one, it is obvious that this is a very uncertain mode of ascertaining such an essential element.
A much better method of arriving at this point will be to take, with the help of a map, all those stage-coaches which run from places where travellers can go cheaper and quicker by the proposed railway. The numbers of these, their daily journeys and their mileage, can be readily got from the stamp-office returns, printed in Robson’s
Directory.
When these various returns and data of every possible kind have been collected, and information has been brought to bear from every quarter whence it can, by any means, be obtained, the whole must be drawn up ready for calculation, so as at last to exhibit, in the simplest manner in which it can be shewn, a tabular result not only of the existing traffic, but also of that which can be affected by the proposed railway under any circumstances, which latter may be called “ contingent traffic.”
The best mode of computing the data, as above described, is to multiply the distance between the stations by the number of coaches ; then by the number of daily or weekly journeys made by each ; and then by the number of passengers they may fairly be presumed to carry. By proceeding in this manner, the last results, in this case, can be added in a column, which will give the number of passengers carried one mile, daily or weekly, as the case may be. This, divided by the number of miles there will be on the intended railway, and augmented so as to exhibit the yearly quantity, will give the first step in the inquiry. The same method exactly is to be made use of for the canal traffic, if any,
Substitutingtons for passengers, which is also to be done with the waggons, vans, and other public conveyances.
The contingent traffic, or that which is obtained from the stamp-office returns, is to be handled in a similar manner, only taking care that the various coaches and other vehicles are only taken for that distance which, in all probability, they will go upon the railway. When the whole is reduced, it must be put into money, and will then contrast with the amount of the same quantity of traffic at existing prices.
It is very easy to determine a limit beyond which none of this contingent traffic will, by any possibility, be available for a railway. We shall shew how this is done, as it may serve thus far as a guide, so that no place beyond the limit need, of course, be paid any attention to.
Inany triangle
a, c, d,
(fig. 1), let (
ad
) represent any increment uniiυrmly generated with any given velocity (
h
l, and let
(ac)
and (
cd
) represent any other increment uniformly generated with any other given velocities (
b
)and (
p
). Now all these velocities being in this case comparable with each other, if we represent the different increments by the times in which they are generated, we may shew by the respective portions
(ad)    (a
c) and
(cd),
the progress of any object
whose motion is uniform.
Let (
ad
) represent a part of the road now used between any two towns (a) and (
d
), let
(ae)
   be a portion of a railroad, and let
(cd)
be a cross-road joining the railroad
(ac)
with the turnpike road
(ad).
Then if the velocity
(b) (p)
and (
h
) in the respective times
(t") (t')
and (
t
) are such, that.
t" + t
, -≈≤≤ or=
t
the point
d
would be at the limit, and no person beyond it could travel along (
de
) and
(cd)
in order to get from (d) to (a) with advantage.
As a railway may, in general, be taken in comparison with a coach-road, both as to time and price, in the ratio of 1: 2, price may at once be excluded from the investigation, and time only taken into account ; because those to whom time is an object in travelling, by attending to that alone, will evidently reap, along with it, the benefit of cheapness also ; and those to whom price is an object, will, in attending to time only, gain that advantage, and in conjunction with it, the minimum of price likewise. Particular circumstances may, in a few cases, modify this ; but the general features of the comparison will be as above.
Taking, then, the ratio of
p∙. b—h : b
=2 :1, and considering
p : h
to be a ratio of equality, and that for one hour
h=p
=10 miles, and consequently,
b
=20 miles, or, in other words, that on the railroad (
b
), the rate of travelling will be 20 miles an hour, while on the direct road
(h),
and the cross road
(p),
the rate will be at 10 miles an hour ; we have then only to add the whole of the perpendicular
(p) 
to half the base
(b).
and subtract the same from the hypo-thenuse (h), which is got from the stamp-office returns for each town, and the remainder, if any, will be the miles gained by travelling over the two sides of the triangle instead of over the third, and if there is no remainder, that particular town is beyond the limits, and will not be benefited by the railway, consequently, it must be rejected from the traffic returns.
It is well there were no railroads in Euclid’s days. We do not know what he would have said to our thus making the perpendicular and half the base equal to the hypothenuse ; but such is the practical fact in the question we are considering, and this fact has been exemplified on every railway where the traffic can partly be derived from towns right and left of the line, which is the case almost invariably. We shall give a few instances, taken from the traffic returns of the London and Birmingham railway.
It is required to know whether the coaches running from Bedford to London ought to be included in the returns of
traffic for the London and Birmingham railway, or, in other 'words,whether the inhabitants of Bedford would go cheaper and quicker to London, by first getting to the !London and Birmingham railway, and then proceeding by that route to London, or whether they had better go by the old direct coach road, and
vice versa,
on their return from London, whether it would be cheaper and quicker for them to go along that railroad, and then by a cross country coach to Bedford, or continue to use the old road ?
The nearest station for the people of Bedford on the London and Birmingham railway, is at a place called Wolverton ; from Bedford to Wolverton (
p
) is 15 miles, to which add (½
b
) half the distance from London to Wolverton, which is 25½ miles, and the total 40½ miles, (½
b+p
) is the equivalent distance from London to Bedford,
via
the railway ; that is to say, by travelling along the two sides of the triangle. Now, in the stamp-office returns, it will be found that the direct road (A) is 52 miles, consequently, either in going to London, or coming from it, the people of Bedford would in each case save 11½ miles in equivalent distance, or 1 hour and 9 minutes in time, besides money. It is clear, then, that Bedford ought to be included in the traffic returns of that railway company.
The same question is proposed as to the town of Hatfield. The nearest station on the railway to this place is at Two-waters, and the distance between them (∕>) is 10 miles ; adding to this (½A), half the distance from London to Two-wa-ters, which is 10½ miles, we have (½A+∕>), the equivalent distance
via
the railroad between London and Hatfield, equal to 20⅜ miles. Turning now to the stamp-office returns, we find (A) the distance from London to Hatfield by the direct road, is also 20½ miles, and consequently, the two routes being equal, that town ought not to be included in the estimate of traffic.
It is required to know the same thing with respect to the town of Hitchen? Here the inhabitants would join the railway in question at Leighton Buzzard, and we find (p)=lG½ miles, (½A) = l9 miles, total or (½A+p) 35½ miles, whilst (A)=36 miles ; and there would be a consequent gain of half a mile in distance, or 3 minutes in time.
In the case of Oundle and London, the station where the inhabitants of that town would join the railway, is near Northampton, and we have (p)=26 miles, (½A)=32 miles, total or (½A+∕>)=58, whilst, by the stamp-office returns, we have (A)=8l miles ; consequently, there is a gain of 23 miles, or of 2 hours and 18 miuutes, by thus travelling over two sides of the triangle instead of the third.
It is desired to know, whether the inhabitants of Leicester, in their communication to and fro with Birmingham, and
vice versa
those of Birmingham in the communication with Leicester, will be benefited by the London and Birmingham railway. Here the point where each party would either join or leave the railway would be Coventry, and we have (p)=25 miles, (½A)=9 miles, total or(½A+∕>)=34 miles, whilst (Λ)=36 miles, shewing a gain of 2 miles, or 12 minutes in time.
We will throw a few more examples into a tabular form, as this part of our subject is a very important one, and cannot be too well understood. Care will, of course, be taken, that all the distances are those really existing on the respective roads in question ; and it will also be advisable to reject all minute savings from the traffic returns, in order to be under, rather than over, in the estimate.
The best way of commencing to make out the following table, will be to take a map of the railway for which it is to be formed; and this Shouldembrace a considerable portion of the adjoining country. Draw on the map a straight line from the one terminus to the other ; this will represent (Zt) in fig. 1, and from this, lay off at right angles from each of the termini, other straight lines ; these will represent
(p)
in fig. 1. We shall now shew how to ascertain the point in
(p)
from which (A) is to be drawn in each case to the more distant terminus, and then shew the mode of using this figure when thus laid down on the map.
We have given to us by the conditions of the problem.
A= y
+ P∙    <1 )
P=A-1.    (2)
A= ⅛    (3)
and from the relations of a right-angled triangle we have
λ=√a⅛λ    (4)
Substituting in this latter expression the value of (jo) from equation (2),
we get A=
⅜∕a2 +
h— — j
2 ,
∕ ———ÿ
whence we have
hxfa*
A2 +A2 —AA + -,
or, λ2 =A2 +Λt —AA+-,
A’
whence O=A2 —AA+-,
or, AA= A’+4 ;
and finally, Λ=A+ 4 = — = 1∙25 A,
4    4
and substituting this value of (A) in equation (2),
we have, »= — = 0∙75 A.
4
From this we see, that the length of
(p)
will always be three-fourths of (A), and the length of (A) once and a quarter that of (A).
On the map then, calling (a) (c) the termini, we set off on (∕t)in four directions three-fourths the length of the straight line (A), and then draw the four lines (A), (see fig. 2,) and we are sure that the four triangles (A,
p, h,) 
include every town that can by any means come to our termini to use our whole line, and if the line A was in reality a straight one on the ground, as it is in the figure, the triangle3 would include
every other town throughout the whole tract of country, the inhabitants of which could avail themselves of the benefits of the railway, therefore, in using our figure, we must make the outer boundary lines (Λ), respectively curve right or left as the line of railway departs in either Ofthosedirections from the straight line (
b
). The values of 
(½b
) may then be found and marked ready for use, as nearly as can be judged, by seeing where the stations would, it is presumed,be ultimately placed; then having ascertained the values of (
p
) and (
h
) from the stamp-office returns, or any other equally authentic document, they may in each case be marked against the roads for all the towns which we may see fit to calculate upon for putting or not into the traffic returns, according as their inhabitants would gain or not by using the railway.
It will, on a very slight inspection, be self-evident, that for perhaps three-fourths of the whole space included within the lines (
p
) and (A), there will be no need of any calculation, except to shew’ the quantity of saving. In the earlier stages, therefore, if it is merely required to know the amount of traffic ; but only the doubtful places need be computed, and the rest may be deferred till it is desirable to complete the whole table. It must also be noted, that although a place may be actually without the boundary lines, yet there may not be a conveyance from it to either of the termini, as the case may be, and that the inhabitants, in order to be enabled to travel thither, may have to come to a place within the lines. They are then to be tried for as if they w'ere themselves situated within, the lines, and, of course, all towns beyond the termini must benefit, when travelling towards the opposite end of the line.
The effect of railways will be this : They can only be made upon main lines, because such lines will alone pay ; the stage coaches will go off these lines when the railway has been a short time in operation, but the same coaches will be employed on cross country roads to feed the railway ; and it is a curious fact, that through this operation one more coach was licensed at Liverpool and Manchester the year after the railway opened than there was the year before.
If the above rules be attended to, a tolerably correct knowledge of the traffic to be expected may be obtained, and it is sure notto be an exaggerated one. Whilst this has been going on, the engineer will have been employed in looking at the general features of the country preparatory to surveying and levelling it ; and in most cases a man of a practised eye at this kind of w ork will be able at once to decide on all the principal points along which the line should go. During the same time the solicitor will have been feeling his way amongst the landowners and the occupiers, so that w here much dissent is manifested, that property may if possible be avoided. Landholders have been proverbially hostile to railways, and enormous in their demands for compensation, yet they have invariably found that their property has been benefited instead of being injured ; and when more land has been required from them, they have asked a higher price on account of that very railw ay running through their property, whose existence theyhadin the first instance declared to bea nuisance. This state of things cannot last much longer; but whilst it does, it must be met as far as possible in the above manner.
There are many things to be taken into consideration before definitely fixing on the precise line in which a railroad is to run. Borings should be largely taken to obtain a correct geological know ledge of the various strata. Λ considerable subsequent expenditure may often be saved in this way. It is of no use to put a penny on our eyes to hinder us from seeing a guinea. Borings may be carried to any depth by sinking a well part of the way, and without this they have been worked to a depth of760 feet. The nature of the traffic must also be taken into consideration, so that when all other things are equal, the line may be run so as to include particular towns. The population of all the adjacent places should be ascertained and marked on a map; the nature
of
the various markets and fairs should be examined' into and the state of trade ; the wants of persons connected with it ought also to be taken into account ; the quantity and quality of the existing goods traffic, its nature, and the demands on it with reference to any probable increase ; and the capabilities of harbours, if any are within reach of the line, their draught of water, the nature of the protection they afford, their present trade, and the effect of the railroad on that trade. In this, as well as in all other cases, the results of a transition from peace to wτ ar, and
vice versa,
should be well considered, together w ith the effect of any future line of railway which may become a partially competing one.
The more effectually these inquiries are made, and the more fully their results are honestly put before the proprietors, together with separate estimates for the engineering department and the managing department, so will their confidence in the undertaking increase ; and it is a most essential point to place this confidence on a sure basis, so that if any little mishap, which none can avoid, take place, the shares may not be suddenly thrown on the market at a ruinous sacrifice, and the undertaking abandoned, through the projectors not having had the necessary information, to enable them to see that the result of their labours would be a profitable speculation, notwithstanding any trifling losses arising from causes against which perhaps no human foresight could provide.
Raihvays with two lines of rails in very favourable situations have been completed for L.l 0,000 per mile in England. This however must be taken as the exception, and not the rule. Under very unfavourable circumstances they have cost L.50,000 per mile ; and of course there will be found an expense per mile at all differences between these two, which may fairly be taken as the extreme limits. Now it is certain, that with a line 80 miles in length, a traffic of 75 tons of goods per day from each end, or 120 passengers per day each way, or with 35 tons of goods and 60 passengers per day each way, the railway, if even constructed for L.12,000 per mile, which will rarely happen, wr ould not afford a dividend of more than a quarter per cent, and (our numbers throughout meaning daily each way) it would require 100 tons of goods, or 160 passengers, or 50 tons of goods and 80 passengers, to pay 1 per cent.; 125 tons of goods, or 200 passengers, or 62 tons of goods and 100 passengers, would but little exceed If percent.; and it would take 200 tons of goods, or 320 passengers, or 100 tons of goods with 160 passengers, to pay 4½ per cent.
The Americans have such facilities for these constructions, that 1600 miles of railroad have been made in that country (a good deal of it, however, being only single line) at an average cost of only L.5081 per mile ; whereas in England the mere permanent way alone would amount to L.4400 per mile, if the rails were 45 lbs. to the yard, and laid upon longitudinal timbers ; L.4900 per mile, with rails 42 lbs. per yard, having chairs and cast-iron supports between them, on longitudinal timbers ; L.5300 per mile, with rails 42 lbs. per yard, on blocks 3 feet apart ; L.4800 per mile, with the same sized rails on wooden sleepers ; L.5600 per mile for 62 lb. rails, on blocks 4 feet apart, and L.5100 for the same rails on wooden sleepers ; L.6000 per mile for rails of 75 lb. per yard on blocks 5 feet apart, and L.5500 per mile for the same on sleepers. These prices do not include laying the way, ballasting, and draining. Thus we see that the mere cost of the permanent way in the country, averaging L.5200 per mile, exceeds that of the whole expense of a complete railway in America ; and 75 pound rails on blocksand sleepers, including laying, ballasting, sidings, turn-plates, and every expense, has exceeded L.8000 per mile.
The mean receipts forfive years on theLiverpool and Manchester line give the followingproportions: Revenue 100,expenses 55, profits 45 ; and the expenses have been as high,
or higher than 60. The average, however, gives the ratio of revenue to profit at 1 to .45. On the Dublin and Kingston railway the same ratio for 26½ months gives 1 to .4344. On the Brussels and Mechlin railway the ratio for 1 year is 1 to .488. On theGrandJunction railway,for6months,it is k.48. On the London and Birmingham, no data exist to form a judgment. There isa very singular coincidence intheseratios on lines so very differently circumstanced, and of lengths varying from six miles to more than 100 ; but we have not yet acquired any sufficient experience in railway statistics to enable us to speak with confidence on the subject. Ifevery railway would publish yearly its experience, as was so handsomely done in the Liverpool and Manchester for several years, analyzing every source of expense, and reducing them to the ratio per passenger and per ton per mile, we should then soon acquire such a stock of knowledge as would enable all these points to be decided ; indeed, of so much consequence are railways now becoming, that the legislature should take up the question, making it a law that returns should be sent yearly, according to a form arranged by some person thorougllly conversant with the subject.
When matters are so far advanced that the engineer can be directed to make out his plans and sections, he will commence by consulting the ordnance map, and by the help of that and his geological knowledge, obtained from the borings and trial shafts, together with his inspection of the wells, mines, quarries, and other excavatiohs in the immediate vicinity of the intended work, he will proceed to lay down at least three or four lines, if some local circumstances do notab-solutely limit him to one particular tract of country ; endeavouring to cross all streams and rivers as near their source as possible, that being the lowest point ; and where hills intersect his progress, aiming at some position where streams run down on either side in the direction as near as possible to his intended line. He should avoid going along the sides of hills, particularly if they are composed of clay or shale, in order to be clear of the unpleasant consequences which slips would give rise to in these strata. He should run through no more seats or ornamental pleasure grounds than possible, and avoid towns and villages where the land would be expensive. He should, as far as practicable, be furnished with lists of the population, the state of trade, and the numbers of the assenting and dissenting owners and occupiers of land, together with the quantity and value of their property. He should have the water analyzed with reference to its fitness for locomotive engines, inquiring into the state of the existing roads and canals, as to the facilities they afford for getting coke, building materials, &c. on to the line ; also whether lodgings can conveniently be had for large bodies of men, and whether the necessary labourers and mechanics can be procured at reasonable rates in the immediate vicinity of the line; and generally he should enter into all inquiries necessary to enable him to choose the best line, and construct it at the least cost.
In order to save time and expense, it will be quite sufficient if what are called rough or flying levels are taken of these preparatory lines, for which purpose the mountain barometer will be amply sufficient, if proper care be taken to apply the necessary corrections, and strict attention be paid to comparing it as often as possible, and at stated regular times, with a stationary standard barometer. Cross stations between the lines should likewise be taken, in order to ascertain the lowest point. The rates at which streams run will also assist in giving indications, and the ordnance map may be sufficient authority for distances. He should particularly attend to curves and gradients ; a curve of three-quarters of a mile radius, in conjunction with a rise of 16 feet in a mile, reducing the speed of a locomotive to nearly one-half. Where the gradient is good, curves are not of so much consequence. A curve of a quarter of a mile radius on the Bolton and Leigh railway is constantly passed
with safety at a speed of thirty miles an hour, but the wear of engines and carriages must be increased.
The whole question of gradients is only beginning to be understood ; and we have no doubt that at some future time railways will be made much more level than they now are. There is no reason why in many cases hydraulic locks should not be used to carry the trains upand down different levels, and to do away with the inclined planes. The practical effect of gravity is not well known. We have long had the angle of repose given as 1 in 280. This is correct with some carriages and waggons, but others differ extremely. Care must be taken where two planes meet that they are eased into each other if their difference is much. This is best done by laying a short piece of the line level. We have known an instance in which, at an inclination of 1 in 330, a waggon ran down 4 miles, and acquired a velocity of 8 miles an hour. The question is not at what angle a carriage will just become quiescent, but at what angle will a velocity be acquired which can have a useful practical effect. The Irish railway commissioners have taken this at 1 in 140 ; whilst on the London and Birmingham railway the Euston extension plane is for a considerable part of its length 1 in 75, the trains on it attaining a velocity of 30 miles an hour, and working remarkably well. It is unfortunate, too, that their classification of engines does not contain at all, those in use on that line. The third class is the nearest, but will give much too little as the power of those engines, which go 60 miles an hour up considerable inclined planes. The third class has 11-inch cylinders, 18-inch stroke and 5-feet wheels, the weight being, engine, 8½ tons, tender, 5½.
The principal difference between this class and the engines on the London and Birmingham railway is, that the latter have 5½-feet wheels and l2-inch cylinders. Taking, however, the above third-class engine, and allowing the friction of the engine gear to be 51 lbs., the friction of the engine on the railway 68 lbs., the friction of the tender 49⅜ lbs., and the atmospherical pressure upon the piston 190.06 inches, reduced in the inverse proportion of twice the stroke of the piston to the circumference of the working wheel, or 533½ lbs., we have a total absorbed power of 702 lbs. before the engine can move, or, which is the same thing, a steam pressure of702 lbs. is requisite for that purpose. Now the whole power being the area of the piston multiplied by the pressure, say 64.7 lbs., when the steam is at 50 lbs., we get for the whole power of the engine 2337 lbs., or the power to propel the load 1639 lbs., which, even with 9 lbs. per ton friction caused by the load, gives a fraction of 182 tons on a level.
Supposing a load of 88 tons, including the tender, on a level, to be drawn at the rate of 20 miles an hour, and that it has to ascendafterwardsa plane of 1 in 140, we have then the absorbed power =702 lbs. ; 88 tons at
9
lbs. per ton =792 lbs. or 1494 lbs. power of steam pressure required for this load on a horizontal plane. But when the train comes to the inclined plane, the weight of the engine has first to be added, making the load 100 tons, or 224000 lbs., and 1 ¼δ  of this, or 1600 lb., is the additional traction required, and taking every 8 lb. traction to cause 1 lb. additional friction on the engine gear, gives 200 lbs., therefore the whole power or steam pressure required is, up the plane, 3294 lbs., and the velocity being inversely as the pressure, we have 3294 : 1494=20 :9, or the velocity will be reduced to 9 miles an hour ; in other words, the time expended in ascending the inclined plane will be more than double that which would be required on an horizontal plane, but as the descending will be performed in the same time as if it was a horizontal plane, and as 1494 : 3294=1 : 2∙2, the equivalent length of the horizontal plane, the length of the ascending plane being unity, will be 2-2, and the average of the two will be 1∙6.
It is upon these data the Irish railway commissioners give tables of the lengths of equivalent horizontal lines to gra-
dients from 1 in 90 to 1 in 1500, and as the errors in the data are principally on the safe side, we give here the most useful one for the description of engine we have before stated, the gross load, including the engine and tender, being 80 tons, and the length of the inclined plane being taken as unity.
The following table from Mr. Pambour⅛ work will also assist in forming a judgment ; it is for engines of 8 tons, the loads being that of the train and tender. The errors here are also on the safe side.
The great disadvantages arising from bad gradients, are capable of being tolerably well estimated by these tables ; but the principal evil is the expense which they occasion, since the load to be carried along the whole line must not be heavier than can be drawn by the engines up the inclined planes, or else additional engines must be employed to assist at those places. On some of the American railways, there are planes so steep that sails are made use of in descending them to check the velocity. The Irish railway commission have computed the cost of working locomotive engines with different loads, as in the following table, in which, as in the preceding one extracted from them, the engine may be expected to
do
more than is stated.
This table, as far as expense goes, can only be considered as an approximation ; the steam pressure too, which is taken at 9 lb. per ton, is higher than what is now found to be the case ; but it will, nevertheless, shew the relative expense ; for instance, if the engine can draw 191 tons on a level, and there are gradients of 5 Jδ on the line of railway, the load, to enable the engine to ascend these, must be only 75 tons, and the ratio of expense will be 1∙04—∙72= •32, or the increased cost of the engine will be 32 per cent, on its journey, besides, there being three journeys to carry the 191 tons, so that the expense and locomotive power
will be quadruple what it would amount to if the line was level, and double what it would be with no incline beyond 
ι⅛o∙
The following table will be useful in calculating gradients:
When, therefore, the flying levels are complete for the three or four lines, as we have before directed, the engineer and manager, or secretary, should bring all their information together, and throwing it into one common stock, select that line out of the whole, which, on the fullest deliberation, appears to be the best with reference to its gradients, geology, commercial importance, and the facilities it affords for soundly and cheaply constructing the necessary works. This subject will of course require deep attention, and the reasons for the selection should be wτitten out in the fullest and clearest manner, for the inspection of any proprietor who may desire to see them, publicity always insuring confidence ; and in most cases, it would be best to submit vital points of this kind to a general meeting of the whole body, before proceeding to parliament to obtain an act of incorporation. This would entirely prevent any mistrust.
That these matters require the greatest consideration, will be apparent from the difficulty, delay, and expense of obtaining acts of parliament for railways. The cost of that for the Liverpool and Manchester line, for instance, thirty miles, was about L∙900 per mile. That for the London and Birmingham, 112 miles, was L.72,869, or L.650, 12s. per mile ; and it is well known that the expense has reached L.1000 per mile on long lines, and that latterly, in every new session of parliament, there have been fresh difficulties thrown in the way of obtaining the necessary acts, till it is now nearly impossible to succeed at all.
• There are many very great hardships connected with 'obtaining an act of incorporation for a railway. Parlia-'ment requires that a plan and section of every part of the ground through which the intended line is to pass, shall be lodged with their clerk, and with the clerks of the peace in every county through which the railway goes. This is a very proper regulation, in order that every landholder may be able, by travelling a convenient distance, to have a personal inspection of a duly authorised document, so as to examine the nature and extent of the benefit, or tile inconvenience which it may occasion to his particular property ; but parliament should at the same time have given the railway companies the power of complying with this wholesome regulation, in the same way as road surveys are made in Ireland, by an order from two magistrates to enter any requisite grounds. This, however, is not done, and therefore it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the projectors of these undertakings, no matter how beneficial or important soever to the community at large, are left entirely at the mercy of the landholders, whether they can make their survey or not. We have ourselves known, that when decided opposition has been evinced to the undertaking, the engineers and surveyors have been put to all possible shifts to obtain the necessary data for their plans and sections. Working by night with lanthoms has even been unavoidably resorted to ; and in one case, where the proprietor was a clergyman, he was watched on Sunduy until he went into his church, and a strong party immediately setting to work, just succeeded in finishing the business as he concluded his sermon.
The facilities of opposing a bill in parliament are so great, that every temptation is held out to do so, especially when the rich harvest to counsel, solicitors, and witnesses, is considered ; and as has been well observed by the Irish railway commissioners, discussions are mooted of the most discursive and discordant kinds, relating to all the abstract professional matter in the most distant manner connected with a railway. The principies of curves and gradients are entered into with mathematical precision, and the laws of friction and gravity are investigated ; questions about which the counsel and the court are often equally ignorant, the one side seeking to swell the estimates and lower the profits, and the other pulling in the opposite direction, like the bulls and bears on the stock exchange, till at last, probably after the expenditure of thousands, the bill is thrown out, not on its own merits or demerits, but because, perhaps, a notice to the proprietor of five or six yards of a cabbage garden, was left next door by mistake.
The parliamentary rules are now as much too strict, as they were at first too loose. The time when the required plans and sections are to be deposited, is very inconvenient ; two years at least being required between the deposits being paid and the act obtained. Thus, at the present time, if any line is wished to be procured, the surveys must be made in the autumn of 1838, the plans must be lodged and the notices given in March 1839, the petition for the bill presented to the Commons in February 1840, and supposing the act obtained the same session, little if any real work can be done until the spring of 1841. The subscription of ten per cent, required on the capital, merely leads to delusion ; bankers in general advance the money, and whether the bill succeeds or fails, they get it back with interest and commission, for by the very terms of the order of the House of Commons, it may be paid back to the person advancing it. The public obtain no security against a bad project by this regulation, whilst a good one may be crushed for want of a speculating capitalist. Nobody is benefited in fact, except the banker and the broker ; and that this is the process largely employed all are perfectly aware.
If a bill be lost in one session, it cannot be proceeded with in the next without a new contract deed being signed. This is a considerable hardship. The deviation in section is too limited, and should only apply to raising embankments and lowering cuttings ; the reverse should be allowed to any extent, and the deviation should be reckoned from the surface of the ground, and not the lateral line. If the same line is kept, the effect would be the same, but by removing to a different level, what may be cutting in one respect may be embanking in another. The limitations in all respects as to deviations may be considered as too strict, and they always have the effect of cramping the company and their engineer ; palpable improvements in many cases, have been abandoned on account of the heavy cost of going to parliament for new acts ; and others in all probability would never have been made, except that the companies in question were forced to apply for a new act, in order to enable them to borrow more money, and then the improvement is put in along with the rest as a rider.
When the intended line is once decided on, the surveyors should be sent out as speedily as possible ; and these are followed by the levellers, who are the engineers. It will be best to survey wide, when you are not quite certain of the exact position of the line ; the surveyors give in their plans to the engineers, who proceed to lay down upon them the line as their levelling goes on, taking care as nearly as possible to balance the cuttings and embankments. It will
save the engineers a deal of trouble, if, where curves are to be run, a man is sent a-head to put in marks at short distances, giving him the measure from the nearest hedge on the plan, which measure he takes on the ground, and sticks in his mark.
It will be best to take ground enough to make the embankments sufficiently wide ; if this is not attended to, when they come to shrink, as they undoubtedly will, they become too^narrow, and an addition has to be made to their width, which will be found a very troublesome operation, such additions being peculiarly liable to slip.
The survey, with complete plans and book of reference, containing the land for at least three times the width required for the railway, shewing every field numbered for each parish, with its owner and occupier, ought not to cost more than L.15 per mile. The best plan will be to survey as wide as is intended to apply for a power of deviation in the act of parliament.
The next thing is for the engineer to make out his detailed estimates, and get ready his plans and sections to be deposited in parliament, and with the clerks of the peace for the several counties through which the line will pass ; he should consult the standing orders of both houses, or be supplied with such extracts as relate to his department. In his estimates there are unfortunately many difficulties ; and most people forget the distinction between a railway being completed and opened, and opened and completed. Besides this, let an engineer be ever so much inclined to make a full and clear exposition of the cost of a line of railway, he may plainly see that if he does so the line will never be made, although it would be a profitable speculation. We should recommend, nevertheless, that no other but a correct and fair estimate should in all cases be furnished, in order to compare it with the traffic. For this purpose, every known bridge and viaduct should be separately computed, and ample allowance made for occupation bridges ; the land, together with all the earthwork, tunnels, fencing, and permanent way should then be calculated, the secretary furnishing an estimate of the office expenses, printing, stationery, travelling expenses, law, advertising, conveyancing, and all other items of this kind. At least ten per cent, should be added to the engineering estimate for stations, and the machinery connected with them, and a full allowance for engines and carriages. When every thing that can be thought of is thus collected together, allow not less that twenty-five per cent, for contingencies ; and note that by a mean of nearly 100 railways, the whole number of bridges average 2
∣
per mile.
In estimating for rock, as this is seldom found except in deep cuttings, it may generally be taken as earth-work, with the necessary slopes. For instance, in a cutting forty-five Qcep1 with slopes two to one, and a base of thirty feet, the sectional area of the opening, and of course the cubic contents of any given length, is four times the area of the cut of the same length with vertical sides, and a price on a rock cutting thus taken out, may be put at four times as much as the earth cutting with slopes, without any increase of estimate. In shallow cuttings this does not hold good ; but the excess may safely be thrown on the contingencies, the amount not being great, and the occurrence seldom. In a thirty-feet cutting, the difference is only three times, which may be sufficient when the rock is not very hard, with the saving in land to assist the price ; but in a sixty-feet cutting, with slopes of two to one, the quantity is five times that of vertical cutting, and with the saving in the land occupied by the slopes, would make the rock cutting much the cheapest, unless of extraordinary hardness. It will take more time to cut through the rock, length for length, but would not if it could be entered at several places at once. Where land is extremely valuable, it will in many cases be cheapest in a cutting to support the sides with re
taining walls, purchasing little more than the absolute width 1 of the railway.    s,
The width of the land required, will of course vary with the depth of the cuttings and length of the embankments, together with the slopes necessary to be given ; rock, for instance, stands generally vertical, chalk varies from ½ to 1, to 1 to 1 ; gravel l½to 1 ; the coal measures 1½ to 1. The London clay has been made to stand at 1 to 1, and has slipped at 3 to 1, depending greatly upon the dryness of it when tipped into the embankment. Blue soapy shale has slipped at.4 to 1, for instance, on Bugbrook Downs, in Northamptonshire ; and in every stratum there are great variations, much depending on the weather. Bad material in wet weather will often stand at no slope whatever. A double line will have ample width in fifteen yards, allowing two yards on each side for the drainage and fencing. The land required for this amounts to 5,455 acres per mile forward, and if 1∙454545 is multiplied by the number of yards in perpendicular height, in any embankment or cutting, at slopes of 2 to 1, it will give the additional number of acres per mile forward, and by a geometrical average, the whole line may be very closely estimated in this way. For example,takea line of 112 miles in length,and l5yardsinbreadth, for railway, ditching, and fencing, and averaging in height of embankments and depth of cutting 24 feet or 8 yards, then 5∙455 × 1 l2=6l0, 96 acres for railway, ditching, and fencing, and 8 χ 1∙454545 × 112=l303∙27 acres, required for the slopes at 2 to 1, this giving a total of 1914 acres, and this mode of estimating may be considered to include the land required for stations and approaches to bridges.
It will be necessary to compute, in many cases, whether a viaduct will not be cheaper than an embankment. The method of doing this will be found in the article Viaduct. Where expense is a great object, timber may be made use of ; beams of which, trussed with iron, have lately been introduced instead of arches, and to a great extent in some cases, for instance the Midland Counties railway. On the North Union railway, a timber viaduct is constructed of great height ; several similar works are in course of execution in the north of England ; and in some of the Scotch railways the system of trussed beams of timber has been applied to very large spans. In many instances, a considerable reduction in the cost of bridges and viaducts may thus be made, especially where the crossings are very oblique, or where the additional height of arches would involve great expense in embanked approaches.
Should money be short and time so valuable as to make the expeditious opening of the line a subject of the first importance, great part of the excavations may be removed at night after the line is open, where they are not required for the embankments. This plan is not, however, to be recommended, and still less so making the embankments less than their full width at first ; the additional patch of embankments hardly ever uniting equally with the part first made, but sliding off, and leaving the side of the embankment as smooth as glass.
Expense again may be saved where land is valuable, by iron colonnade viaducts, by which means towns may be entered much farther than is now possible to do without an enormous outlay. The cost of such a viaduct will in general not exceed two-thirds of a brick one of the same height and width ; in fact, there are many ways in which expenses may be lowered, and the railway got into work in a speedy and safe manner at a moderate outlay ; after which, if the project turns out a successful one, ornament may be attended to, to any extent which may be thought advisable.
In the same manner it should be calculated whether a tunnel or an open cutting will be the cheapest mode of getting through hills of importance. The method of doing this will be shewn in the article Tunned. Where rock
is found at the bottom of the cutting, of course the sides may be nearly vertical, and the upper strata may have any required slope given to them. In such a case it will be advisable to have a tolerably wide bench where the change of slope takes place ; this should be done in every case where there is a variation in the slopes, and the drainage well attended to. By attention to Riese points, a greater saving will be made in the quantity of land required.
There are so many ways of computing earth work, all of them equally accurate, that the choice consists mainly in using the one which occupies the least time. Tables have also been published for taking out the cubic contents by inspection. The following formula, however, which we have arranged for this purpose, is so very quick in bringing out the results, that we have always given it the preference over any other method.
Let
a=
the area in square yards.
c= the content in cubic yards, per chain in length, tc= the width in feet of the cuttings or embankments. A= the height in feet of the cuttings or embankments.
m : I =
the ratio of the base of the slopes to their altitude. Then the rules applicable to every case will be
tcA+mAs
β= -
c=22a
And as 30 feet is a very general width, if we adapt our formula to that, we have with slopes of 1 to 1,
30A+A* n=--'—
9
c=
22a
And with slopes l½ to 1,
20Λ + Λ, α =i -6—
c=22α.
And with slopes 2 to 1,
30A +
c=22β
And for any other widths and slopes the results will be brought out very quickly, byan adaptation of the general formula. By the particular ones given above, the tables on the precedingpage were computed, giving the cubic contents per chain in length, at one view, for every foot in height, up to 50. In the column for the area, the decimals are given to three places of figures, but four places were used in calculating the cubical content. Where a dot is placed after the last figure in the column for the area, it denotes that the same figure goes on
in infinitum.
In using the column of cubic contents, increase the last decimal figure by I when it is above 5.
The columns of “ half-widths,” in the preceding tables, will enable the engineer to set out his work from the centre pegs as he proceeds. This is done at once, where the country is level, on the cross section ; but in sidelong ground a correction will be required, to obtain which, after the halfwidth has been staked out, the level should be planted over the centre peg, and the height above and below the cross level taken at the points which mark the half-width. It is evident, that for each foot which these points may be above and below the level of the centre peg, one foot must be added to the half-width on the side which is above the centre, and subtracted from it on the side which is below, where the slopes are 1 to 1, and a corresponding alteration at all other slopes ; or if we put
A, ≈ the height above the centre, or depth below it, »i : 1 = the base to the perpendicular,
c=
the correction, c=
~t ~
mh',
where c is + on the high side, and — on the low one. This will give a first approximation, and may be repeated if necessary, by levelling to the half-width thus corrected, and proceeding as before, and the cubic contents must receive a similar correction when necessary, our tables presuming the cross section to be on a level. The average height, however, can in almost every case be taken perfectly near enough for every practical purpose.
It is a great pity that the custom has not been generally introduced of taking all the measures in yards and decimals, surveying staffs being marked to j¼fj ths of a yard. This would reduce the calculations considerably ; and the reduction of any of them to feet, for plans and sections required in Parliament, or any other isolated purpose, would be infinitely less troublesome than using feet throughout, and having to divide by 9 or 27 for the area and cubic content.
The column of half-widths, when required for any other slopes or widths than those we have given, may be readily computed by the formula
tc , x=-+ mA
w-here
x
is the half-width at the top, and tc,
m,
and A as before.
The column of cubic contents, when required for any other width than 30 feet, may be readily found, by using a correction c' to the cubic contents at 30 feet, which correction is + when the width is above 30 feet, and — when below,
w∕Λ6θ
c, = ± ——— =κ∕A...2-4444 in cubic yards,
2 (
where
wf
is the number of feet above or below 30, and A' is the height in feet. The correction is the same for all slopes, taking care to add or subtract it from the cubic contents for 30 feet at the given slope.
With reference to apportioning the work, so that the cuttings and embankments may be equal, regard must be had to the nature of the soil to be moved. For instance, in the London clay it will be found that any quantity of cutting will not make the same quantity of embankment by about ten per cent., whereas in common earth just the reverse takes place, and the cutting will make an embankment nearly ten per cent, greater.
There is a point, which, in the early stage of laying out a railway is too often lost sight of, that ought to be a subject of the deepest consideration ; in fact, it is of vital importance to the whole interest of the line in question, and no pains ought to be spared in most fully and rigidly investigating it ; and this is, to what extent cutting and embanking can be advantageously carried, that is to say, a line perfectly level, allowing for the curvature of the earth, from one end to the other, being the point of perfection, how near ought this to be approached, looking on the one hand at the first outlay, and on the other at the future gain, in the cost of locomotive power, and repairs of engines, carriages, &c.
We can calculate the cost, for instance, of making a line having no inclinations in any case greater than 1 in 300. With this line we should have a determinate outlay in locomotive power and repairs. The question to be considered then is simply this : If we make the line, instead of having no inclination, greater than 1 in 300, to have none greater than 1 in 500, or 1 in 1000, do we lay a foundation for a yearly saving, when the railway comes into work, sufficiently great to pay us for the consequent first cost of these reductlons in the inclinations ?
In order to enter properly into this question, experiments must be made for the purpose of determining the cost of locomotive power on the various inclinations, selecting some railway where different engines can be employed on inclines suitable for the case in hand, there being no data in existence, in this country at least, which can with certainty decide this point. The following table, by the engineer
of
the New York and Erie railroad, may help us a little:—
This table, giving principally impracticable gradients, will only serve to shew us that the ratio of expense is an increasing one, the first differences being respectively Ov : 0-7 : 1-05 : 1-33 :0-91 : 1-47: 1-75.
If we admit, till we can obtain better data, that altering our gradients from 1 in 250 to 1 in 500, saves two-tenths of the expense of locomotive power, and that reducing it to a level instead of leaving it at 1 in 500, saves two more tenths, we can easily see what the effect of that would be.
The number of tons carried, as given in the table, is not decreased according to the law of gravity alone, but contains another element, most probably the result of experience on the road in question. Suppose then that on the road we are about to construct we may expect to work seven trains per day each way, with passengers, there being ten carriages in each train, averaging four tons each, and travelling at the rate of twenty miles an hour, and two trains each way with goods, in ten waggons per train, averaging goods and waggons five tons each, and going at the rate of ten miles an hour; also let the railway in question be one hundred miles in length; then at a cost of L.304 per day, the passengers being taken at eighteen in each carriage at £d. each per mile, and the goods at ^d. per ton per mile, at which price it is known they can be carried, we may presume, that if, instead of having an inclination of 1 in 250, our road was level, we should decrease these expenses four-tenths, or bring them to about L.182 per day, or L.66,430 per annum. Thus presuming the above to be correct, we should be saving money, if our road could be made level at an additional expense of one million.
Each particular railroad must of course form a separate case, but we are persuaded it will generally be found that a large outlay will be justified in approximating to a level as near as possible ; and where the line is entirely so, the cuttings can always be cleared of water, by sloping the side draining down each way, from the centre till they arrive at the nearest water course, where as usual they will deliver their contents. Our practical knowledge of this subject of reducing railways to a level is founded on such slight data, that a careful set of experiments in order to shew the way more fully into such a question is very much wanted; and we question whether hydraulic locks will not be found to save a considerable expense in difficult situations, bringing the trains from one level to another, by which means railways may be made through tracts of country which would otherwise never pay for the necessary outlay.
When the contracts along the line are fairly at work, one of the first knotty points which the directors will have to decide on, is, the width of the rails, their shape, the length of their bearing, and the form of their chair. The width between the rails has only lately become a subject of dispute ; nearly all the railways prior to the Great Western, having been laid down 4 feet 8£ inches apart. Mr. Brunei has extended it to seven feet; the Irish railway commission recommend six feet two inches; several of the Scottish railways are laid down at five feet six inches ; in fact, the variations run from four and a-half to seven feet.
The question of the stability of the carriages on the railway may be left out of consideration in looking at this matter, because the machinery will always require sufficient space between the wheels to insure this. Now, as four feet eight inches and-a-half are found to be enough for the good performance of an engine, which, with five and a-half feet wheels, will go on a level upwards of 60 miles an hour; as with five-feet wheels, Marshal Soult, on his visit to Liverpool just after the Queen’s coronation, was taken over lOf miles of favourable ground on the Grand Junction Railway within 10 minutes; and as an engine has gone 60 miles an hour on the London and Birmingham Railway up an inclined plane, is it wise or prudent to make any change at all, and will any additional speed, which may be gained by increasing the width of the rails and the diameter of the wheels, compensate for the greater expense and the outlay which will constantly be required to keep the road in order on account of the increased weight ? This will receive light from the experiments on the Great Western, but will not be fully decided until it be tried on the Irish or some other railways, as Mr. Brunei’s rails are altogether different from most others in use. The plan recommended by the Irish railway commissioners, of putting the rails farther apart but not widening the carriages, merely making the wheels run outside the bodies, is a good one in some respects ; but it would add to the expense of the works considerably, and the result would be exceedingly questionable.
It must not be forgotten, that, whereadifferent width from that in common use is adopted, the railway on which it is used becomes isolated. None but its own carriages can travel on it, and they can travel on no other line. This alone will, in most cases, be a serious objection. For our own parts we should say, let wr ell alone ; wait for more experience ; we are yet infants amongst railways, and we ought not to innovate on that which has been proved to do well, until we become giants. The majority of opinions, however, are beginning to lean towards some increase in the width, although there is every diversity in the quantity which practical men think necessary. Certainly the machinery under the boiler is compressed into its minimum space, and more room for it would be a great advantage, if it does not induce an incommensurate loss in other ways.
With respect to the form of the rail, it can be proved that a fish belly has greater strength, weight for weight, than any other. A 601b. fish belly at three-feet bearings, rolled with a lower web, would be the best form of all; and this has been effected, as the original Liverpool and Manchester rails had partially this shape. The question, however, must be looked at in conjunction with the length between the supports. We have given below those forms most approved of in practice, and have added that in use on the Great Western Railway, which is however light, and does not stand well, three feet having been the original distance of the bearings.
Fig. 3 is the old Liverpool and Manchester rail, laid down at three-feet bearings; weight thirty-three lbs. per yard, with square joints. This rail was rolled with a lateral swell at the bottom, which on one side was continued the whole length, but on the other did not quite reach the chair. One side of the chair was cast with a cavity, into which the lateral swell fitted, and the opposite side had a nearly similar opening, in which was driven an iron key, shaped like a wedge, which, entering in a longitudinal direction, not only forced the swell into the cavity which was formed to receive it, but by this means, at the same time, kept the rail down in the chair.
Fig. 4. Losh’s patent rail, in which he sought to gain a still more powerful mode of keeping the rail down in the chair, by having his key tapered vertically as well as longitudinally, so as to act as a wedge downwards, as well as in the direction of its length ; whilst, at the same time, the necessary expansion and contraction is allowed to take place.
A key on each side has also been used with this form of rail, still, however, the keys were always found to work loose. Losh had also a projection rolled on the bottom of his rail ;
at the part which lies in the chair, where a corresponding cavity was cast to receive it, so that thιe effect of expansion or contraction would have a tendency to raise the rail in the chair, and thus wedge it tighter. The upper part of the notch for receiving the key in the chair was also formed with a slight curve, to allow of a small motion in the block, and the rails were made with a half-lap joint, formed not by cutting the middle rib of the rail, but by setting it back, so as to preserve its whole strength. They were laid down at three feet bearings, and weighed forty-four lbs. per yard, but of course were not restricted to that, or to any other weight.
Fig.5. The London and Birmingham fifty pound fish-bellied rail. This was laid down at three-feet bearings, and the half-lap joint formed by setting back the middle rib instead
of cutting it, in the same way as Losh’s rail. Itwaskeyed down by a pin going through the side of the chair in a direction sloping downwards. The end of this pin went into a notch in the side of the rail, at its lower parts; the pin was forced tightly in by an iron key acting through the chair, and also through a hole in the pin, by which it was driven both in and downwards ; and theendof the key being split, was then opened, to prevent it being shaken loose. Mr. Stephenson has a patent for this chair. The rails did not rest on the bottom of the chair, but on a loose piece of iron, the lower part of which was the segment of a circle, and the upper part flat, and of the same width as the middle rib of the rail ; and this worked in a circular cavity in the chair, so as to allow a motion when deflection took place in the rail. These rails had no bottom webs.
Fig. 6 is the St. Helen’s and Runcorn rail, with a bottom web, having a semicircular base. These rails are forty-two lbs. per yard, and w'ere laid down at three-feet bearings. A
wedge on both sides is used, which acts downwards as well as sideways, from the opening in the chair to receive it being narrow’er at the top than at the bottom.
Fig. 7 shews the parallel rails laid down on the Grand Junction, and London and Birmingham railways. The left hand one is sixty-four lbs. per yard on the London and Birmingham, and sixty-twolbs. per yard on the Grand Junction.
The right hand one is the Londonand Birmingham seventy-five pound rail. Rails of this kind are laid on seventy-five miles of that railway, and were intended to be at five feet
bearings, but provedacomplete failure at that distance, which had to be reduced to three feet nine inches. The left hand one was intended to be at four feet bearings. These rails were both laid down contrary to the opinion of the engineer, Mr. Stephenson, and have entailed a vast expense on that company. They have wooden wedges.
Fig. 8 is the Great Western rail, laid on longitudinal timbers, and forty-four lbs. per yard. FeIt is laid between the
rail and the timber, and the former is fastened down with screws. It has been found deficient in strength for the heavy engines used upon that railway.
Fig. 9 has been frequently adopted on railways formed
with longitudinal bearings. It is spiked down to the timbers, and requires no chair. The weights have varied from thirty five to sixty lbs. per yard. Sometimes the spikes have not gone through holes in the rail as in the figure, but have
been driven in just outside each edge of the rail ; in which case they are made with large heads, which come down and clip the rail firmly to the timbers.
The London and Birmingham Railway Company, after a long discussion, decided to try four and five feet with a parallel form instead of a fish-belly, which, requiring one-third more height in the chair, had, in addition to other disadvantages, that of being more liable to wring the chair from the block, which is found in practice to take place directly as the height of the chair. The block is also more loosened in the ground by a high chair, and the continual repairs arising from this loosening, amount to one-half the wages expended in repairing the way in general; hence every means of diminishing such a heavy item, which can possibly be devised, should be put in practice. As usual, where all was theory, there were considerable diversities of opinion. Those who wish to enter more at large on this subject, may consult Professor Barlow in favour of lengthening the bearings, and Lieutenant Lecount against it. As the matter has had a fair trial, it is only necessary here to state the results.
On the Primrose Hill contract, which was laid with four-
feet bearings, it was found much more troublesome to keep the permanent way in order, than with bearings of three feet. With the four-feet bearings, it was found, that, in a very short time, the rails were put out of gauge, the width continually increasing, until it became absolutely necessary to readjust the whole. This was observed in a very marked manner with a part of the line near Kilburn, which had been recently laid down.
On the Harrow contract, from the crossing of the Harrow road to No. 12 cutting, the permanent road was used for conveying away the material from a side cutting. The traffic was of course considerable, but not by any means such as to account for the absolute difficulty which the contractors had in keeping the railway in guage. They were obliged to put sleepers at the joints in addition to the regular number of blocks, which of course kept the rails in guage at those points ; but notwithstanding this, the intermediate blocks moved outwards. When the engineer’s attention was first called to this position of the permanent way, he was inclined to think that something might be attributed to the blocks being placed anglewise ; but after giving this part of the subject his careful consideration, he felt satisfied that the position of the blocks was at least as firm as the square position ; and he felt confirmed in this opinion, by the fact, that, in another portion of the line near Kensal Green, where the road was laid in the ordinary manner with blocks three feet apart, and placed anglewise, and where locomotive engincs had been constantly running for eighteen months, there was not found any greater tendency to amotion outwards, than when they were laid square to the direction of the rail, in the old manner. If, therefore, the diagonal position of the blocks had been defective, this was the place to try it ; for the quantity of material conveyed over this part of the permanent road in waggons without springs, and with heavy locomotive engines, was very great indeed, and under circumstances well calculated to detect any marked difference in the construction.
On the Berkhampstead contract, where five-feet bearings were in use, and where a locomotive engine was at work, the contractors made heavy complaints of the greater difficulty they had experienced in keeping the rails in gauge than there was with the shorter bearings. In fact, in the eighteen months prior to June 1837, the three-feet rails in some parts of the line, had more work than they now have, where the line is open ; yet they stood it well, whilst the five feet have been so put out of gauge by one day’s work, that the waggons had to be stopped till one and two additional sleepers for each five feet could be laid down, and even thentheywere but indifferent; and similar complaintshaving come in from other quarters, together with the fact that the five-feet bearings on the Liverpool and Manchester railway were found to cost double the sum for keeping the way in repair that was required with three feet nine-inches bearings, the whole question had to be opened again, and the directors resolved to shorten the bearings from five feet to three feet nine inches.
This lateral deflection is of most serious importance, when we recollect that the rails being out of guage will throw the trains off the line. The lateral blow s which an engine may give are such, that several chairs in succession have been broken or knocked off’ the blocks and sleepers ; and the absolute weight passing over any one rail may be fairly taken as three times the nominal weight, for the effect from lurching has been experimentally found with engines having three tons’ weight on each of the driving wheels to increase that weight to seven tons ; besides which, we know that four-wheeled engines, for instance, will, in practice, be frequently running on three wheels, no railroad being a perfect plane ; and when these three points are in the act of shifting, the engine during that time is only supported on two wheels.
The flexure produced by this weight perpendicularly has also this bad effect, that the engine and train are constantly ascending an inclined plane in practice, although the railway is considered as level, and of course where the railway has an inclination, that inclination will be proportionally increased. This was first pointed out by Professor Barlow, and is an important fact; for on the short planes between each block or sleeper caused by the deflection of the rail, the gain in descent is so insignificant, that it may be entirely neglected ; consequently the engines and carriages are constantly going up an inclined plane between each support of the rails equivalent to the central deflection divided by twice the distance between the supports. This is, from calculation, ascertained to be as follows, viz. :—
Although the deflection of rails will generally be different from the above, and the increase of powr er required to surmount the consequent planes will also require considerable modification to suit the action of locomotive cngines, which depend upon so many other circumstances besides the action of gravity ; yet the fact remains the same, namely, that with deflection there is a consequent loss, and the subject deserves much more consideration than it has received, especially as we know that fish-bellied rails do not fail in the middle,butabouteight inches from the supports. Arail ought not to act as a spring ; but as this to a certain extent must be the case, it should be made to do so as little as possible. A spring should only be used to get over an obstacle where one must be met, but if the rail acts as a spring it creates an obstacle where none existed before. We must also remember that when deflection becomes permanent, fracture begins, as we break a thing we are not strong enough to pull asunder, by bending it backwards and forwards. In fact, the experiments on deflection have hithcrto been such that they have merely served to unsettle all opinion, and to place one set of deductions in opposition to another. The mode of estimating this element by two wheels on an axle, loaded at their peripheries, and oscillated on the rails, is one which well deserves attention. In all cases, the firmer the rail is fixed to the chair, as respects rising in it, the less will be the deflection. Of course it must always have a motion in the direction of its length to allow for expansion and contraction, the force of which will vary in good or tolerable iron from nine to six tons per square inch of section. The expansion of a fifteen-feet rail may betaken at∙00l26 inches for each degree of Fahrenheit, and as it will not be safe to take less than 90° for the range of our climate, this gives •1134 inches for the total, or ∙0567 at each end of such a rail.
In order to understand the action which takes place in the case of a deflected rail when a heavy weight passes over it, we must know the effect of gravity at the velocities used on railways. For this purpose, if we take three, four, and five-feet bearings as those which seem at present likely to be the limits, the following table will give us the time occupied in going over half the rail in each case; and from this we shall be able to ascertain the effect of gravity during that time.
Or putting
a
for the velocity in miles per hour,
v
lor the velocity in yards per minute, and
t/
for the velocity in yards per second, we have
t,=1 -i^L=29∙333α
o0
, 1760∙o    .
^=-s7^r=4∙888α
3600
And in the table, taking either of the three right-hand columns, according to the length of bearing, for instance the eighteen-inch column for a three- feet rail, we have the number of inches through which the engine or any other body would fall by the action of gravity in free space, in the time which it takes to pass over 18 inches at the given velocity, by the formula
i =i2 ∙l93,
where
t
is the time in seconds, and i the space in inches. Thusat20 miles an hour, with a three-feet rail, where l8inches are passed over in
TSB
of a second, the engine would fall during that time
∕ 1
∖
2    1    193
'193 =38L16'193 =38406=∙5 ' °r half an inch '
Again at 30 miles an hour, with a 3-feet rail, 18 inches of which are passed over in 5 ¾.s of a second, the engine during that time would fall
(29^) ’193= 858+9’193= 858+9= '225 ’ or not quite a quarter of an inch.
And denoting by
t
and 5 the time and space as above, we have conversely, knowing the space an engine would have to fall, for instance, through a bad joint, the distance the engine would pass over without touching the lower rail, by the formula
- /Z * 193·
Thus when s=∙225, we have
.=∙∕'S=√β∏δS=^ι=ij
of a second, in which, at 30 miles an hour, we find by the table the engine would pass over 18 inches of the lower rail without touching it, describing in its fall a parabola modified by the effect of the springs on the engine.
This has been put to the test of experience by bending a rail nearly half an inch, and then painting it. An engine and train of carriages were then run over it, none of the wheels of which touched the paint for 22 inches. This affects a railway in three ways. First, when the engine has to fall, through a bad joint, the rail which it leaves being higher than the rail it is coming upon, the increased momentum from the fall will here occasion a larger deflection than ordinary, and a consequent inclined plane against the engine, from the time it comes on the rail till it passes the next chair. Secondly, when a rail is permanently bent, where the resistance on the second or rising part of the rail will be less than in the first case. And thirdly, when the rail is simply deflected by the weight of the engine, and restores itself to its original level when that weight has passed ; here the effect will be least of all, the rail taking the form of a receding wave before the wheel, and a following wave after it.
In the second case, where the rail is permanently bent, the formula for the space the engine would fall will be
i=H-i93∙<2 ,
where H is the height of the plane, and L its length,
s
and
t
being as before. For instance, if the bend is -I of an inch
in a 3-foot rail, we have i =1 -^, l93==r==, 00125 of an
180 ooo, 49
inch, at 30 miles an hour, and s=Z∙193.-Z=∙00278
IoO do4, lθ
of an inch at 20 miles an hour, or 5 ¼c of an inch at 20, and ι ⅜0 of an inch, at 30 miles an hour, would be descended by the engine by the effect of gravity, in the same time that steam and gravity together take it along 18 inches of the rail.
Let us next suppose we have steam enough to carry the engine along at a velocity so great, that gravity will not bring it down the -I of an inch perpendicular, whilst steam carries it along the 18 inches horizontal, we shall find this velocity to be at and above 44 miles an hour, for it takes j ,5 of a second for a body to fall one-tenth of an inch by the effect of gravity, and 5 1 s " : 18 in. =3600" : 44 miles; hence at 44 miles an hour, and at all velocities above it, the engine, after arriving on the rail, bent one-tenth of an inch in the middle, and forming two planes, will no longer touch the rail till after it has passed the middle of it, and velocities of 60 miles an hour have been attained.
In the third case, the engine does not go down a plane, as above, but has to make its own curve through its weight, deflecting the rail. The necessity then of knowing the laws of deflection is such, that no idea can be formed of the effects these importants matters will have on the economy of railroads ; yet we have up to the present day positively no data to go upon, which will lead us at all near the truth ; and railways are constructing, at a cost very little short of seven millions, w ithout the means having been taken to put such essential points as these out of the pale of doubt and uncertainty, which could be done by a few well conducted experiments. We know-, for example, that in an iron bar, if Z= the half length,
x=
any variable distance,ÿ= the corresponding depth, and Δ = the sine of the elementary deflection, the
∕⅛2
sum of the deflections when
x=l isj
& f°r a parallel
Z1
bar, and ∕ --¼-= for a fish-bellied rail, in which latter
J(o+M3
expression
a
= the least depth, and
b
= the difference of the depths divided by the half length.
In some cases, w, here wτ e have good experiments, the mode by which they have been calculated, in order to ge-ncralize and render available their results, is inaccurate, and the effect may be shewn by the following table, giving the deflection of rails, with three tons’ weight on the mid-
dle of them, each column deduced from the same set of experiments, differently computed, and varying to an enormous degree.
Column
a
gives the deflections at 3 tons, deduced from the experiments by the experimenter, except for the sixty-inch, which is derived from the fifty-seven inch bearing. Column Sgivesthedeflectionsderived from the formula givenby the experimenter as the results of the same experiments. Column c gives the deflections from this formula, recomputed by another person. Column
d
gives the deflections computed from another formula given by the experimenter. Column
e
gives the deflections in column <Z, computed by another person. Column
f
gives the mean of columns c and e, which appears to be the best approximation we have. Column
g
and
h
give the deflections for 9 tons’ weight, the first being derived from column α, and the second from column
f
the difference in the longest bearing 69 inches, being nearly 3 to 1.
With this lamentable uncertainty in the data for a deduction of such importance as that of a deflection in the rails causing an engine to be constantly ascending an inclined plane, there is no hope of arriving at any commonly accurate results. For instance, if we take the bearing of 5 feet, which Mr. Barlow gives, as occasioning the ascent of a plane of 1 in 1875, the deflection, with 3 tons’ weight, being ∙064, and substitute for ∙064 the deflections in columns 
a to f
successively, we have as follows :—
In which there is more than two and a-half to one difference in the results, all of which are drawn from one set of experiments, whilst at the same time the probability is, that the planes ought to turn out less steep instead of being more so.
From the effects which arise in consequence of deflection, it will be well worth considering what advantages are derived from the use of felt under the chair. If the rail was perfectly stiff, then, when the engine came over a chair, and compressed the felt, it would afterwards have to go up an inclined plane, through the rail being depressed at the block it had just passed over; and this would continueto take place till the engine arrived towards the next block, when it would depress the rail again in a similar way, and thus its course would be continually up a partially rising plane, the assistance downwards being almost insensible.
But as every rail deflects more or less, the inclination produced by this cause acts just exactly in the opposite manner to that which takes place through the depression and spring of the felt ; for whilst the wheel, from the effect of deflection in the rail, descends during its passage over the first hah of the rail, and ascends while going over the se
cond half, the effect which the compression and springing of the felt has upon it, is to make it ascend a plane during its passage of the first half, and to descend during the time it is going over the second half. The felt acting as a spring, however, is exceedingly questionable, although maintained by some persons. Its use· will be found to consist more in giving a steady seat for the chair when the block is composed of hard stone, and offering a defence against the grating of the chair on the block, which will otherwise take place, producing a grinding, a loss of surface, and consequently a looseness, which, when once arrived at, rapidly increases.
From the above observations on the effects of inclined planes, we may see how desirable it is to have the blocks and sleepers placed in the most accurate manner, as respects uniformity of height. For we must recollect, that in a three-feet rail, a difference of one quarter of an inch in the height of two adjacent blocks, or, more properly speaking, in the height of the basis of two adjacent chairs, converts that three feet of rail into an inclined plane, rising 1 in 144.
With respect to placing the blocks diagonally, this is a less stable position in the line of rails than when they are placed square, for the resistance of the ground to the sinking of the block, whether conceived to be similar to a collection of springs acting under the block, or a collection of weights acting above it, must in either case be referred to the centre of gravity of each half of the block, considering it as moved by the passing weights about a line drawn through its middle at right angles to the line
of
the rails ; that is to say, in a block two feet square, and one foot thick, there are 12 inches in the direction of the rails, 24 inches across them, and 12 inches in depth, acting on each side the axis of motion when the block is laid square, the surface of each half being 288 inches. Now, any uniform effect on these 288 square inches drawn into the distance of their centre of gravity from the axis of motion, gives for the stability of each half 1728. Any uniform effect on the 288 inches of a diagonal half block will give a less number ; for the distance of the centre of gravity from the axis of motion was 6 inches in the square block, but it will be only 5∙65682 in the diagonal, being l-3d the altitude of the triangle, and hence we have only 1629*16416 for the stability in the direction of the rails. The diagonal block will consequently have its maximum resistance to sinking at 45° from the line of the rails, or in the position where stability is least required. Circular blocks have been proposed in order to get equal resistance in all directions, but the gain would not be equal to the extra expense, and the stability, although a trifle more than that of the diagonal block in the line of the rails, is less than that of the square one; for the area, as before, being 567 square inches, =∙785398d2 , and (/being the diameter, we have d=^733∙386=27∙0811, and the radius =13∙5405, and as the arc is to the chord, so is f radius to the distance of the centre of gravity from the centre, or 3∙14159× 13-5405 : 27∙08ll=9O2703 : 5∙74678 inches, and 5∙74678 × 288=1655∙=07264 for the resistance.
We have experimented on the two positions of the blocks, and found that when placed diagonally, there was rather more resistance to lateral motion than when placed square, and they are more conveniently got at to repack in the former position than they are in the latter ; but when placed as close as they ought to be, in order to form an economical road, the diagonal position is inadmissible.
It will be seen from the following tables which we have computed, that instead Ofincreasing the bearings from three feet, if we study economy, we should reduce it ; and as we have in these tables taken into account all ordinary variations in the elements of expenditure, we must consider it proved that except under very extraordinary circumstances, the nearer the supports are brought together up to the limits here given, the cheaper will the railway be made,
whilst of course it will possess more stability, in proportion to the number of resisting bodies which have to be moved, before it can be thrown out of its proper position.
Table VIII.
Effect of a decrease of one-sixth in the price of the rail, and an increase of one-sixth in the price of the block, on the comparative cost of long and short rails.
From these tables, it will be evident that the prices of the materials comprising the permanent way, will very rarely be greater or less than the rates at which they are given ; and that consequently it is no longer a question, as far as expense is concerned, which is the best mode of laying a railway.
In these tables we have exhibited each item separately, in order that the component parts of the expense may be seen, as well as the gross sum. The right-hand column in each table shews the price of one yard of single rail, or one-fourth the price of two lines of rails. In Table I. the rails are taken at L.14 per ton, to include freight and carriage, and lOs. as the price of a block, containing five square feet of stone, with its chair, &c., complete, including carriage ; but in each table the cost of laying the way is excluded. This price for the block will give 8s. for a two-feet rail, which may be thus divided :—
A
d.
2 treenails at    L.4 per 1000,............ 0    0½'
2 spikes, at L.19 per ton, 2400 to
the ton,..............................0    3¾
1
piece of felt,...........................0    0¼    Includingall
1 wedge,.................................. 0    1¼    charges    to
1 chair, at L.9 per ton, weight 20 lb., 1    7 (the place of
1
block, 1 foot thick, and 1 foot 10    delivery.
inches each side,...................5 11¼
8 0
In calculating for any intermediate lengths not in the table, for every tenth of a foot increase in the length of bearing, add 2 lbs. to the weight per yard, and 2∙4d. to the price per block, in each case to the tabular number, in a line with that length to which the addition is made. Thus, for 2∙2 feet say 44 lbs. per yard, and 8s. 4-8d. for the block ; and when a different price is taken for the block, increase it 5 ⅛th for each 3 inches of increase in the length of the rail, and proportionally for all other lengths.
The minimum price in Table I. is when the length of bearing is 2∙2 feet, being then I6s. ll*45d. per yard single rail.
Table II. is computed to shew that if we take the same proportion for the blocks as in Table I., and at the same time keep the total expense per yard the same at all lengths, we shall have too little money left to get an efficient rail ; it is calculated, by turning the price of the blocks in Table I. into the price per yard, and subtracting this from 17s., the remainder will be the price of the rail per yard, which, at l½d. per lb., will shew how heavy
a
rail can be got for that price. Thus, we see that we can only have8lbs. more in a five-feet rail than we ought to have in athree-feet; besides which, we cannot get up to our standard, namely, 60 lb. at three-feet bearings.
Table III. shews the comparative cost with the rails at l¼d. per lb., or L.ll, 13s. 4d. per ton, and the minimum laying between 2¼ and 2¾ feet of bearing, we shall shew how to ascertain where it exactly is, which method answers for the other similar tables. Let us first take 2-6 feet for the length of bearing, and adding, as before directed, 2 lbs. for this additional tenth of a foot, to the weight for 2-5 feet, we get 52 lbs. per yard, as the weight at 2∙6 feet, and 3 feet : 52 lbs. = 2∙6 feet : 45Ό66 lbs. for the weight per rail, which at 1 ¾d. per lb. is 56∙332d. The price of a block for a 2∙5 feet length is 108d., and adding 2∙4, we get 110∙4d. for the block at 2∙6 feet ; and this added to the price per rail, gives 166∙732d. for the total price per rail, or nearly 13s. 10¾d. Thus, as 2∙6 feet : 166∙732d. = 3 feet : 16s. 0∙38d. for the price per yard complete of single rail, whereas at 2∙5 feet it is 16s. 0∙ld.; hence the minimum lies between 2∙25 and 2∙5 feet, and not between 2∙5 and 2∙75 feet.
Resuming our trial with 2∙4 feet, we have 45 + 3 = 48 lbs. for the weight per yard at 2∙4 feet, and 3 feet : 48 lbs. = 2∙4 feet : 38∙4 lbs. per rail, which at l¼d. per yard, costs 4s. The price of the block at 2∙25 feet is 102d., and adding 3∙6d. we get 105∙6d. for the block at 2∙4 feet ; that added to the price of the rail, gives a total of 12s. 9∙6d., and as 2∙4 feet : 153∙6d. = 3 feet : 192d. or 16s. 0d., whereas the price at 2∙5 feet is lfis. 0∙ld. In the same way we may repeat the calculation till we arrive at what extent of accuracy we choose.
Having seen the effect which lowering the price of iron has, we know that by raising it, we should find it cheaper to put the blocks close together than our first table indicated ; thus, if iron is l¾d. per lb., we have for 2-feet rails 3s. 10∙666d. as the price of the rail, and Ils. l0∙666d. as the price of the rail and block complete, which gives us 17s. 10d. as the price per yard, whereas with 2∙25 feet rails it would be 4s. ll∙0625d. the rail, and 13s. 5∙0625d. for the rail and block, or 17s. 10¾d. per yard.
Table IV. shews the effect of cheaper blocks on the total "'cost at each length of bearing ; it begins at 7s. per block, and increases 5¼d.or 5 ⅛th, for each 3 inchCsofincrease in the length of the rail. The price of rails will never materially differ in any part of England, the freight being the principal variable quantity, but the price of blocks will alter in a very great degree, and the effect of this may be shewn ; take, for example, 2s. 8d. as the price of one for a two-feet bearing, and we know they have been procured cheaper ; adding to this, as we have done before, 2s. for the other items connected with the block, we get 4s. 8d. as the price of a block complete, and the price of the rail being 3s. 4d., the total price is 8s. per rail, or l2s. per yard. In the same way we have l2s. 6d. per yard at 2¼-feet bearings ; 13s. ld. at 2½ feet; 13s. 7d. at 2¾ feet; l4s. 2d. at 3 feet; and 18s. lld. at 5 feet ; hence in a railway 31 miles long, we shall find the saving, by having the blocks at two feet apart,
L.75,293, viz.
31 miles at 5 feet,..............L.206,237
„    „    2 feet,................130,944
L.75,293
And as an useful approximation to this calculation, we may take each farthing per yard increase of cost in the total price per yard of single rail, to give L.7∙3333 per mile of double line, or in the above instance, there being 332 farthings between 12s. and l8s. lld., we have 7∙3333 × 332 × 3l = L.75,474.
As we are obliged to place our supports close together, to get a minimum cost when the blocks are less in price than the cost we first assumed, so we shall find that when greater, we must increase their distance. For instance, if a block for a two-feet bearing costs 9s., the cost per yard of block and rail complete will be l8s. 6d. ; at 2¼ feet, 18s.4½d. and at 2½ feet, 18s. 4¾d., the minimum being between 2¼ and 2½ feet.
We have next to see what will be the effect when the rail and block are both either greater or less than in Table I. This divides itself into three branches ; first, when they decrease or increase in an equal ratio ; secondly, when the rail decreases or increases in a greater ratio than the block ; and, thirdly, when the block decreases and increases in a greater ratio than the rail.
In the first case, the ratio of the price per yard will remain evidently the same as in Table I. Thus, if both rail and block are reduced in price
⅙
th, we shall have at 2 feet, the price per yard, l4s. l∙875d.; at 2¼ feet, 14s. l∙66d. per yard ; and at 2½ feet, 14s. 2∙4d. ; hence the minimum is as before at about 2 feet 2 inches, and the same will hold under any other increase or decrease, the ratio in rail and block being equal.
For the second case, when the rail decreases in price in a greater ratio than the block, Table V. shews the corresponding effect, and the minimum will be found again at about 2 feet 2 inches, for at that distance we have 44 lbs. for the weight of the rail per yard, or
32∙S67
lbs. for the weight per rail, which at l¼d. per lb. is 40∙334d. ; for the block, if , 25 of a foot, increases the price 5¼d., then ∙2 of a foot will increase it 4∙2d., which added to 84d., the price at 2 feet, gives 88∙2d. for 2∙2 feet. Hence the total price of rail and block is l0s. 8½d., or 14s. 7- 27d. per yard, which is rather less than at 2¼ feet.
It will be found, in like manner, that the effect of an increase of price in the same ratio will not affect the minimum ; for example, with an increase of
⅙
th in the price of the rail, and
⅙
th in the price of the block, we have at 2 feet the rail 3s. 10∙666d., the block 9s. ; total, 12s. 10∙666d., or 19s. 4d. per yard. With 2¼ feet, the rail will be 59'065d., the block 114∙75d. ; total, l4s. 5'815d., or per yard, 19s∙ 3¾d. With 2½ feet the rail will be 72 9l5d., the block 121∙5d. ; total, l6s. 2½d., or per yard l9s. 5∙299d. ; and with 2∙2 feet, we have the rail 56∙466d., the block H3∙376d. ; total 14s. l∙842d., or per yard, 19s. 3∙6d., or rather less than at 2¼ feet.
For the case where the rail increases or decreases in a less ratio than the block, Table VI. shews the comparative effect on the minimum, which is here at about 2 feet, with a decrease in the prices; for trying 2∙2 feet, we get for the rail 40∙334d., the block 75∙6d. ; total, 115.934d., or per yard, 13s. 2∙09d. ; and at 2∙1 feet, we have for the rail 36, 75d., the block, 73∙8d. ; total, 1 l0∙55d., or per yard 13s. l∙93d.
When there is an increase of
⅙
th in the price of the rail, and ¼th in the price of the block, we have for 2-feet bearings, the rail,46∙66d.,theblock, l20d.; total, l66∙66d.,or per yard, 20s. I0d.; for 2¼ feet, we have, rail, 59∙0625d., block, 127.5d.; total, l86∙5625d., or per yard 20s. 8.75d. ; for 2½ feet, the rail is 72∙915d., the block, l35d. ; total, 207, 9l5d.1 or per yard, 20s. 9, 498d. Hence the minimum is at 2¼ feet, for at 2∙3 feet the rail is 61∙7165d., the block 129d. ; total, !90∙7l68d., and the price per yard, 20s. 8, 76d. ; and at 2.2 feet, the rail is 56∙4665d∙, the block, 126d.; total, 182'4665d., and the price per yard, 20s. 8∙81d.
We have now only left the cases where the price of the rail increases, while that of the block decreases ; the effect of this is shewn in Table VII. ; and when the price of the rail decreases, while that of the block increases, this is given in Table VIII. In Table VII. the minimum expense is at the distance of 2 feet, and in Table VIIL at 2¾ feet, this being the greatest distance yet obtained ; hence cheap rails and very dear blocks are the only conditions which will warrant a distance at all approaching to those now in use ; 2¾ feet appearing to be the limits under any ordinary prices, and in general only 2¼, while in some instances 2 feet only should be taken, in order to lay down a railroad at the minimum expense, as far as the cost of the permanent way is concerned.
In Table VIII. we do not know on which side of 2½ feet the minimum expense will be ; we shall therefore, in order to complete the inquiry, investigate this as we have done in the other cases. Taking, then, 2∙6 feet, we get 52 lbs. per yard for the weight, or 45∙065 lbs. per rail, costing at l¼d. per lb. 56∙332d. ; for the block we have as ∙25 feet : 7d. =∙l foot: 2∙8d., or 10s. 8∙8d. ; total, 185∙132d., or per yard, 17s. 9"ld., being rather more than the price at 2∙5 feet. Trying now 2∙4 feet, we have 48 lbs. per yard, or 38∙4 lbs. per rail, costing 48d., and for the block ∏9d., the price at
2¼
feet plus 4'2d., the proportion for ∙15 feet, or 123-2d. ; total, 171∙2d., or per yard, 17s. 10d. which is more again than at 2∙5 feet ; the minimum price will therefore be very near 2∙5 feet, but rather more if any thing.
It now remains for us to shew, why the particular rate of increase and decrease in the size of the rail and block, which we have given in the tables, has here been assumed. And, first, of the blocks. Every person, «’hen calculating this effect of prices for any particular railway, will of course take into consideration the cost of rails, blocks, and sleepers for the railway in question ; and as the rate of increase we have given, viz. one-fourth in the price of the block chair, and all appurtenances complete for each foot increase in the length of the rail, is more than whatis necessary rather than less, and as a decrease in the price of the blocks w ill lead to shortening the rails still more, it will be seen that any error will be on the safe side. It will most probably be found in practice, that whatever the distance between the supports may be, the same absolute surface should be preserved in every case; for although it has been said that each block, be its distance what it may, has but to support a certain w eight passing over it, yet this is not a correct mode of reasoning, because it has to support that weight for a longer time, when the distance between each
is increased, which is the same thing as having to support l Sgreaterweight. Forinstance, with blocks five feet apart, if κe only took them at four square feet each for the intermediate ones, and five square feet for the joints, we should have 183040 square feet, supporting the train for one hour, at a velocity of twenty miles per hour, whilst the same sized blocks at three-feet bearings would afford 281600 square feet to support the train for the same time at the same speed, being a difference in favour of the short bearings of 98560 square feet, or more than one-third. Our increase in the tables is rather less than would be required to preserve the same absolute surface.
With respect to the increase in the weight of the rails which we have taken, viz. sixty lbs. per yard at three-feet bearings, as a standard, and adding or subtracti ng five lbs. for Cverythreeinchesofincrease or decrease, we can only state that we have taken this from an attentive consideration for some years of the practical effects exhibited by the rails now in use on various lines. A mathematician will say, this is following no known law. It is not, and we firmly believe that to attempt to lay down mathematical laws for the dimensions of rails would be perfectly premature, in the present state of our ignorance on this subject. Before this can be done, a complete and satisfactory set of experiments must be made, to settle the many points now in dispute ; and so much depends on the form of the rail, and the quality of the iron, that file weight and dimensions must be left to the judgment of the engineers of the respective lines, who, having their characters for ability at stake, will be influenced in every possible way to take all the necessary steps for coming to a right conclusion, and when in doubt, they will ; of course resort to experiment, every penny spent in which drill in all probability save many pounds.
rH To assist in computing similar cases to those which we ⅛ve above given, we may observe, that each farthing per 'h. in the price of iron gives L.2, 6s. 8d. per ton, and each ¼ound per ton gives -428571, &c. of a farthing for the price Jtftlb.; hence, multiplying the number of pounds and de-riœals of a pound in the price per ton by -428571, will give dhe price per lb. in farthings and decimals.
In computing the relative strength, &c. of the various rails, the following table will be useful :—∙
o
l experience is yet so small, that various opinions ex-4 Wn aoiongst those best informed, as to the proper form -it weight of the rail and chair, and the size of the blocks ∙>
a ι weepers ; and there is no doubt that in a few years a δa ⅛ιal alteration will take place in all these things. Un-", j present time, however, there has been nothing but -gjj⅛e both in rails, chairs, and keys, and in the distance ,j
∣
∙, ⅞,e supports. Everyrailshouldbetested before >s-rt ceιved from the contractor, and it should be always -membered that too much care cannot be taken with the ι*r wanentway materials. All the expense incurred in earth-gj⅛5nι * masonry is only a means to an end, viz. the per-gl σ,t road. W e recommend the fish-bellied rail as possessing, weight for weight, the most strength; and this would be increased by rolling them with a lower w eb. How much depends on the manufacture will be apparent, when it is stated that no less than thirty rails broke on the Liverpool and Manchesterrailway, in the fortnight ending on the 21st January 1837.
The question of expense, as far as the present mode is concerned, is a simple problem of maximum and minimum ; and it has been so treated in the preceding tables, algebraic formulæ having been omitted, to make them more generally useful. But there seems to belittle doubt that with a 60-pound rail on three-feet bearings, and a block one foot thick, containing five cubic feet of stone, the increase we have given for longer bearings will not be considered as too much, when we Tecollectthattheblockhasnot only to support the rail, but has to Sustainitagainstlateraldeflection. Whenthebiocksmerely sink, the unusual motion of the engine and the carriages will at once detect it, and the proper remedy must be resorted to ; but it might easily happen that the rails would be laterally deflected without its being observed until the train was throw n off altogether, particularly when it is taken into consideration that the caιτiages are still matter of experiment, and that the play of the w heels between the rails and upon the axles is not by any means a fixed quantity, and also that the whole weight of the engine acts laterally, whereas vertically that weight is divided.
A breadth of from 2 to 2½ inches for the top of the rail, seems admitted by nearly all parties to be sufficient ; less would induce considerable wear on the engine and carriage wheels. The wear of rails on the top surface may be taken at one-thirtieth of a pound per yard per annum, and the total loss of weight at one-ninth of a pound per yard per annum ; but more accurate experiments are yet required on this head, particularly as to the top surface w ear ; and the curious fact is yet unaccounted for, that rails laid on the ground, or keyed into chairs on blocks, but not run over by engines or carriages, oxidize considerably more than those which are used.
Six feet between each line of rails, seems also generally adopted as a convenient width ; but this, of course, depends in some measure on the width between the rails, and the construction of the carriages. Should the plan of placing the wheels outside the carriages be generally adopted, a less width between the lines may suffice, but the distance would not bear to be much decreased. The width of embankments outside the rails should at least equal the width between the rails, so that, when the engines or carriages get off the line, their wheels will be so confined between the rails, that the outer one will not get off the embankment. The mode of action when an accident of this kind happens, appears not to be well understood. We frequently hear of engines being expected to drag their trains off the embankments ; but this is a thing unlikely to occur often ; for when an engine gets off the rails, it will generally strike so hard against the blocks and sleepers, that its velocity, independently of the shutting off the steam, or reversing the motion, will very quickly be lessened. When this takes place, the train, by its momentum, either forces the engine farther along, or, if it strike it at an angle, which is generally the case, throws it over on its side ; and it is from this momentum of the train that the damage proceeds. Intermediate carriages getting off are the cause of much less danger. From the weakness of the present axle-guards, however, these generally break when the wheels strike the blocks or sleepers ; and there is a great want of strength in the second and third-class carriages. We have known four of these, fortunately empty, crushed into toothpicks when a collision took place.
Tlie following formula will enable manufacturers of fish-bellied rails to fit their rolls to any required size of rail. Thus, for three-feet lengths of bearing. In figure 10
Let
r
=CD=the radius of the rolls EF and
mm •    d=
maximum depth of rail.
d, =minimum depth.
e
=CB = distance of real and false centres.
2=the angle LCD.
g— 2re.
A=r2 + e2 .
x=the abscissa in inches
1 f ,    ∙1
y=the ordinate in inches ∫    al ‘
A=BI.
, i , 2r + r∕+cf v
∖
c then have ⅞-, --~-,
A
and
y=h—
s ∕Λ+7.c0s
z
in the first quadrant of the roller, or from O0 to 90°, or from 1 to 9 inches in a three-feet rail, and
y=h—s/k
—√∕.cos2 in the second quadrant, or from 9
to 18 inches ;
.    2r.3,14159
but ≈=-==-. 10x=lo .10x ;
300
hence
y=Jh^tzg
cos(
22 ∙⅛4 0 15 g
.10    for every inchofx,
/ZZ
∕r. 6,2831852 ,n
∖
ory=A—
V
A±ÿcos^    . IOxy,
or y=A— √ A ±⅛r cos (r. ,0174533.10x)∙
The rolls EF and
mn
should be both equal, and likewise equal to the required length of the
rail between the bearings, which, as the above formula stands, is 3 feet, but having the length, breadth, and depth of any required rail given, the size of the rolls may be determined; for their circumference will always be equal to the given length of rail between the bearings, viz. 3, 4, or 5 feet, as the case may be, and all the rest is got from the above equation, which is general for all sizes, by merely noting, that when the length
. 180
is any other than 3 feet, —
. x,
must be substituted for 10x; where
a
equals the number of inches of half the length of the rail between the supports. Thus, for instance, for a five-feet rail the part in the final equation within the brackets will be (r . ,017453.6x). The natural cosines are to be used, and
g
is to be applied although the cosine may = 0.
A fish-bellied rail, 50 lbs. to the yard, and with depths of 5 inches maximum and 3∙8 inches minimum, compared with a parallel rail of the same weight, and the depth due to that weight, namely, 4∙4 inches, each laid at three feet bearings, andhaving the thickness of theirribs and the form of their heads exactly similar, will be deflected, as the numbers 1881 for the fish-belly, and 2282 for the equivalent parallel ; that is to say, a thickness of iron of about 3-1 Oths of an inch, must be added to the parallel rail in order to make it equal to the fish-belly. This proposition will nearly shew the gain obtained by the use of fish-bellies for all theusual lengths of bearing, and may be taken at 11 to 9, since, in all cases, it is stiffness which is so essentially required. Mere strength will always be had with the sizes now generally adopted ; and it is consequently against deflection which we have to guard, at the same time looking to economy, and not expending immense sums of money unnecessarily, as has been done in purchasing rails much heavier than are required. So much, hou'ever, depends on the quality of the iron, that we would strongly recommend every rail to be thoroughly tested when received from the manufacturer, and the results in each case registered. This wτ ould soon enable such a valuable collection of facts to be made, as that all hypothesis would cease ; whereas, hitherto, there have been such discrepancies between experiments made by persons of the first eminence, that, practically, the subject is involved in as much uncertainty as ever.
Wooden sleepers, which should be laid on all embankments till they are thoroughly consolidated, ought to be wide and long, and it will not be found too much to give them ten feet in length and one foot in width for a three-feet bearing, having a proportional increase and decrease at any other bearing. The cheapest way will be to buy the sleepers in the round, and have them ripped in two by circular saws of about three feet in diameter, or even more, and withallthe Ieethbrokenoffexcepteverythirdorfourtll. This will prevent the saw from choaking, and, in a great measure, from heating, which occasions the instrument to buckle, as it is termed. The boring of the blocks should also be done by machinery before they are delivered to the contractor, and a proportional decrease be made in his charge for laying the permanent way ; and if the company do not perform this part of the work, the contractor will find it much to his interest to set up a machine for himself, if his contract exceed half a mile in length.
Various have been the opinions respecting the kind of joint by which the rails are connected, or, more properly speaking, respecting the shape of their ends ; but this diversity of opinion ought not to have existed, and has only been a consequence of our want of experience on the subject. Itstandstoreason, andhasbeen found to beafact,that butt joints, that is to say, when the ends of the rails are at right angles to their length, will always occasion a shock in passing over them, even if ever so well fitted ; and if, as is too generally the case, no regard is had to the temperature in laying the way, wide gaps will be found at each joining, particularly in winter. Half-lap joints are much preferable to butts, and greatly diminish the shock, but are still liable to objection ; in the first place, through their weakening the rail ; and, in the second, for still giving a very unpleasant jar to the carriages, although in a less degree than the butts. If they are laid right and left, as shewn below, it will improve them for diagonal joints. The form of joint we should recommend is given in fig. 11, in which the arrow shews the direction of the train. The slope ofthe joint must be placed exactly contrary upon the other line of rails, so that the wheels never meet the pointed end of the rail, but always run off It then needs no other care, than that the point should of the two be the most prominent towards the wheel, and, if it is not so, the joining rail should be taken down a little w ith a file.
Treenails should be made of good heart of oak, well seasoned, until thoroughly dry, or of African teak, straightgrained; and each treenail should be cylindrical, one inch and 
a
half in diameter, and six inches
in
length, having a circular hole, half an inch in diameter, and six inches in length, bored through the centre for the insertion of the iron spike to fix the chair. They are sometimes made by being turned
in
a lathe, and are also done by being passed through a cutting knife; but by whatever process they are brought to the required shape, regard should in all cases be had to the grain of the wood, which should in every instance be completely followed. The most usual way of contracting for these is, at so much per thousand, stating the place of delivery ; but if a steam-engine be used to make wooden keys, it can also work lathes for the treenails, which, in that case, will be no cost, except for labour, as, in cutting up planks for the wedges, plenty of waste pieces will be found to make the treenails A plan has grown into use on some railways, of dropping the treenails loose into the hole of the block, and then driving the spike in and splitting them; but this is not so good as driving them in tight. Oak spikes have formerly been much used, and have been known to last twenty years ; we should not, however, recommend them, with the rate of speed that has now been attained.
The best form of chair is a subject requiring deep consideration, and on which engineers of eminence are by no means decided ; we have, therefore, given several drawings of those which are most approved. The leading distinctions are, whether the rails have been keyed in by iron or by wood. The latter method, indeed, is almost indispensable when the rails have lower webs ; for, as it would by no means do to have the chair following the shape of the rail, as in that case it must always be detached from the block whenever it is required to take the rail out of it, this consequence ensues, namely, that the opening in the chair must be as large as the lower web of the rail. A chair of this kind, with its wooden key, is shewn in fig. 12.
In every mode of keying it must always be remembered, that the intention is merely to keep the rail down in the chair, and not to attempt to confine it from longitudinal motion. The right way of making these wedges is an essential thing, and should be done by the company. The original mode was to purchase oak plank, thoroughly seasoned, and of the thickness required. If it be not seasoned in the most complete manner, it will not answer ; but this process may be hastened by steaming it in a tank, with a pressure of about 12 lbs. on the square inch. When it is thoroughly seasoned it should be removed into a drying-house, having hot air flues under the floor, made of iron pipes, where all moisture must be extracted; and when thoroughly dry, it is cut into the proper scantling, and into thirteen-inch lengths, each of which when complete is cut into two for joint chairs, or three for intermediate chairs. They are first prepared by joiners to the right shape for going through the cutters; a joiner will prepare about 100 in a day. The cutters are composed of four blocks of iron, fixed one over the other, with openings between each of about one inch, sloping downwards. In the centre of the three lower blocks are steel cutters, the lower one being exactly the shape of the key, and the others above gradually larger. The key is put in at the top, and forced through by a lever about • seventeen feet in length, brought down by a chain and crab winch, with eighty teeth in the wheel and ten in the pinion. Three men will work this, and in ten hours will cut 500 pieces, thirteen inches long, to the required shape. The shavings come through the spaces between the iron blocks, and by the gradual cutting, each one taking off a part, the knots in the wood go through without breaking, and the key comes out perfectly smooth.
The next process is compressing them, which is done by forcing them through an iron block, ten inches thick, with twelve holes in it,3-l6ths ofan inch Smallertllan the key at the lower part, and tapering to the top to admit the key. They are forced through by the ram of an hydraulic press, worked by two pumps, one of an inch and-a∙half in diameter, the other of one inch, the diameter of the ram being nine inches, and the safety valve loaded to about nine hundred tons. Four men work the large pump, and two the small. They will get through 900 per day. A little rough grease is first rubbed over them. They are then cut into two or three, or more, in the proper proportion, according to the relative number of joints to intermediate chairs, and packed up in bags, care being taken to keep them in a dry place.
This method of manufacture has been much improved by the erection of an engine on the London and Birmingham railway, by which circular saws, running from 900 to 1100 revolutions per minute, rip the plank into scantling, and afterwards cross-cut the thirteen-inch lengths. Two more cutters were adapted on the top of the other four, but gradually larger. These took in the thirteen-inch lengths without their going into the hands of the joiner ; and the key was forced through by a plunger working up and down, by a guide and parallel motion on the end of an iron beam. A similar plunger force them through the compressing box; and 1100 were completed in ten hours. A part of the power may also be applied to drill the stone blocks for the permanent way. The cost of the whole, with the necessary shops, amounted to aboutL.l500; but the keys may be made for L.8 per thousand, if a cheap pattern be adopted. The circular saws also cut up the waste wood into treenails, which were bored by a lathe adapted to that purpose, the whole being worked by steam. It is found to save the labour of fifteen men. When this sort ofchair is used, it will occasion a great saving of time and trouble, if all the chairs are either made by one contractor, or every one gaged before it is received ; for if there be the least difference in the size, it requires a different set of cutters, and a different compresssing block for each sort, besides giving a great deal oftroubleto the men employed in laying the wτ ay. The same remark applies to the rails. The best wr ay is to take plenty of time, by beginning early. Find a respectable man, and let him have the whole job, at a sum varying with the price of iron.
In iron keys there are many more wτ ays of shaping them. The accompanying drawing (fig. 13.) shews a very good one, where the rail has a web on one side of the bottom only, and the other side of the chair is notched to receive an iron pin. The only objection ever urged against iron pins is, that they are apt to get loose. This might be obviated by splitting the end which enters first, and opening it when driven home. If this be done, the other end should have a head, so that a clawed crowbar could be applied in order to draw it out.
The annexed drawing (fig. 14.) shews another good form, invented by Mr. Robert Stephenson, where the rail is confined by two bolts having angular ends, which enter a small score in the rail, and are keyed home by iron keys with split ends ; the key hole in the chair, and that in the bolts, being so proportioned, that the effect of keying up is to press the end of the bolt against the rail. In these chairs there is a moveable piece of iron, the bottom of which is circular, and the top flat, laid in a properly-formed receptacle in the bottom of the chair ; and on this the rails rest, so as to give perfect ease to any motion produced by flexure.
Mr. Buck’s chairs (fig. 15.) are well spoken of. The wedge is driven against the rail by a vertical key. The accompanying drawing (fig. 16.) shews another good form, in which an iron ball takes against the rail, and is keyed close up to it by a longitudinal key. The joint chair is laid down, not at right angles with the rails, but diagonally, and is cast with a split end, rather smaller than the rail. It has therefore to be chipped to get the rail in.
There is however a great loss on all these chairs, through their being made of cast iron. This occasions numbers to be broken in fixing and keying. To prevent this, wrought iron chairs may be made, by rolling the iron into the required form in lengths, and then cutting up the lengths into chairs by shears ; after which they may be drilled and completed.
A chair upon a universal joint has been patented, so as to allow the rail to accommodate itself to the sinking of the block ; but it has not been adopted on any railway that we are aware of. The inquiries necessary under these and other heads, as the works increase in their number and magnitude, will be best met by the directors dividing themselves into sub-committees under the various necessary branches, which is always advantageous, as long as there is one managing head to bring all the parts to bear upon a common focus.
Points and crossings are things which require considerable attention ; and great care should be taken that they are laid down on a plan which combines simplicity with safety. Where one line intersects another, and the crossing is a fixture, or as it is called, a through-crossing, no more will be necessary than to bolt the sleepers well together, and pay rigid attention to the adjustment of the rails ; but where it is requisite to have the power of going either on one line or the other, as at a siding, the matter becomes more difficult, and the mode of doing so may be considered as far from settled, opinions being still very various.
The oldest form is the common switch, where, upon one side of the line of rails, is a bar, moveable on a hinge, capable of being laid into either the main line, or the line of sidings. (Fig. 17.) Abreast of this is a fixed check rail, the main rail being bent, and having a nick in it (a) for allowing the flange to pass when the carriage is not to shift its line. The left hand half of the figure exhibits the same thing for the opposite line of rails. A check rail must also be placed at each point, so as to ensure the train going upon the required line when the switch is placed in the proper position. The switch is generally moved by a horizontal bar or rod of iron connected with it, which is drawn in and out the required distance by an eccentric, at the opposite end to that which is connected with the switch. This eccentric is attached to a vertical rod, coming up about three feet inside an iron standard, and it is turned at the top by means of a lever key which can be taken off at pleasure, and which no person should be allowed to touch except the switchman. This form, although the oldest, is a very good one, and is very easily understood and managed. There is, however, a very cheap and good plan of moving them, instead of an eccentric. This is a vertical lever, which draws them backwards and forwards, the handle springing against an arc with notches to receive it in each position. This might be placed inside the switchman’s sentry-box, where it could be locked up if he was unavoidably absent, and no one could touch it.
Another form, also much approved of, is what is called the check-rail, to distinguish it from the former, which is called the switch-rail. In the check-rail there is a move-able bar to both sides of the line of rails. These are moved simultaneously, by the eccentric being connected to each of them by a cross bolt. The action of the check-rail and the switch-rail has this difference, that it takes place on different sides of the flange, the check-rail acting on the outside of the flange, and the switch-rail on the inside. The check-rail is not so good as the switch, nor is it so easily understood. Itisshewnwith its eccentric in Plate CCCCXX. Fig. 1 is the slide rail in plan, fig. 2 the elevation, fig. 3 the elevation of the eccentric, fig. 4 the point, and fig. 5 the general arrangement.
Another form which has been much adopted, is Curtis’s slide rail. This has a double bar upon each side of the line of rails, is moved by an eccentric like the others, and is very effective, but expensive. In fact, they all answer the purpose, but the slide rails require signals, which we shall hereafter describe. But this is not the case with the others. Opinion seems now coming back to the old switch rail, modified by making the switch part of it considerably longer, and having it kept in the right position for the main line, by a weight or spring, so that when the train is to go on the siding, the switchman has to hold the switch all the time the train is passing. This is objectionable. But the construction has an advantage which overbalances any thing which can be said against it; namely, that it will be opened by the wheel of the engine, if purposely put wrong, so that the train can by no possibility get off the line of rails, unless it is actually wedged immoveably in the improper position. This is susceptible of further improvement. As it stands, it is the subject of a patent, but we question whether it could be sustained.
We have seen a very cheap, simple, and effective switch on the Great Western Railway, adapted for peculiar situations, where fixed crossings would be disadvantageous. This consists of a switch moveable at the middle by a pivot, instead of at the end. This connects two lines in either direction, but is not to transfer trains from one to the other. Whichever plan may be adopted, we should recommend one set to be made rigidly accurate, and then that templates should be formed from these as a guide for all the others. No method but this will ensure the correctness of the whole; and crossings being always dangerous, they should never be used if it can be helped, except on a station.
There is still a difference of opinion amongst engineers whether the rail should be inclined or not. The gain and loss may be thus stated. The advantages consist principally in preventing so much wear both on the tire of the wheel and the rail, but chiefly the former, for when the rail is upright, the wheel, theoretically speaking, is only in contact with it on a line having hardly any breadth This is found to wear away the wheel very fast, and the rail likewise suffers a loss on the side where the contact takes place ; besides which, the wear approximates the tire of tile wheel more and more to the shape of a cylinder instead of a cone ; and the rail also partially adapts itself to this action, in each case, through the abrasion of tile working lines. In addition to the increase in repairs, through these causes, the wear is to a certain extent unequal, and an irregularity is produced which consequently leads to an unsatisfactory performance between the engine and the rails. But this is avoided by inclining the rail so that it receives the wheel on nearly the whole of its bearing surface ; and 3-8ths of an inch in 11 inches is the inclination of the blocks on the London and Birmingham railway.
The disadvantage consists mainly in this, that if the wheels do bear on the whole of the surface, say two inches, there must be a constant rubbing action going on, arising from tile unequal velocities with which the outer and inner tire of coned wheels revolve, and this will of course be equivalent to dragging the whole train for a certain distance with every one of the wheels locked. Let us see what this dragging will amount to.
Let
d
be the greater diameter of the coned wheel, and
d'
its lesser, each in inches ; taking the bearing surface at two inches, and supposing that in this breadth the two diameters differ half an inch, both which suppositions are in excess, we then have
3,141593, or (</_
<f, ).
1,570796
4M
for the rubbing at a mean in each revolution of the wheel, and the length of this revolution will be
⅛≤. 3,141593, or (d+tf). 1,570796.
If we take rf=60¼ inches, and <Z=59¾ inches we get
(d—d') .
1∙570796=,5 . 1∙570796=∙785398 inches, which is the quantity of dragging for each revolution, the length of which will be (rf+d, ). 1∙570796 = 120.1∙570796 = l88∙49552 inches, we then have this proportion,
Yards.    Inches.    YaMs. Inches.
5,235986 : 785398 = 1760 : 264 Hence, the dragging of the whole train will be 264 inches per mile, or 733 yards in 100 miles for each wheel. This, at first sight,appearsconsιderable,butinpracticeitwill be much less. The data have been taken large to shew the limit of this action, and the whole bearing surface is not practically in contact with the tire of the wheel, arising from the various imperfections inseparable from the manufacture of both wheels and rails, particularly the latter, although it must be allowed that the better they are made, the more dragging will take place ; and likewise the more the surfaces come into contact, the greater will be the effect of shocks from bad joints and other imperfections. Still our opinion tends to inclining the rail.
It appears absolutely necessary in railroad engines and carriages, that the wheels should be keyed to the axles, the wheel and axles both turning round together ; several attempts have been tried to introduce fixed axles, but although the greatest care has been taken in the manufacture, both in boring the hole in the nave, and turning the axle, yet a lateral shaking has always been found to take place, throwing the carriages off the rail on very moderate curves.
The quantity of inclination which the cone of the wheels should have, will, strictly speaking, depend on the radius of the curve. But, as half an inch on 3½ in width, or l-7th of the width is found to be practically advantageous, in keeping the flanges of the wheels from rubbing against the rails in straight lines ; and, as by raising the outer rail, tile effect of gravity may at any given velocity be made to neutralize the centrifugal force, that inclination of the tire of the wheel may be adopted, except in very extraordinary cases. With this slope, and a wheel of three feet in diameter running on a line of rails 4 feet 8½ inches in width, with a play of one inch, Mr. Pambour gives the following table of the elevation necessary in the outside rail :
To enable this calculation to be made for any other inclination, or suitable curves to be made where the inclination is determined, we shall explain the method of investigating the subject.
The resistance on curves is of two kinds, one from the carriage having to turn on the rail without any corresponding play on the axle, thus producing a dragging of the wheel, which takes place on that which is going over the inner part of the curve; and, secondly, that which arises from the centrifugal force, and which causes a friction to take place between the flange of the wheel and the rail. To correct these, the inclination of the coned wheel, the radius of the curve, the velocity and the elevation of one side of the line of rails, must have definite relations, and the wheels must have sufficient play between the two rails to admit the centrifugal force without being able to induce the second resistance, yet under given conditions to correct the first.
To arrive at this result, whilst the outside wheel of the carriage describes the arc
mm, ,
(fig. 22.) the inside one must describe the arc
nn’
terminating at the same radius ; the working circumference of the wheels must therefore be represented by these arcs, and putting
D=diameter of the outside wheel,
D'=diametcr of the inside wheel,
w=the ratio of the circumference to the diameter, we have wwn, =ιrD
WW'=5γD',
Also, as the two arcs are terminated by tile same radii, .we have
mm'_mo
nn' no’
and if we puttheradiusof curvature
(os)=r and the half breadth of the
road=c, the above proportion will
become
mm'
f+βj
nn'    r—e
D r + e
θ'"    D'~
iC∑e'
and D—D'=D(1-~) = —> r + e∕    
r + c
which gives the difference necessary in the diameters of the
wheels, in order to produce the required effect ; and in order to know what lateral play must be had, if we take the
inclination of the tire at —, we find this to be
a
⅜ a
(D—D')
and substituting for D—D', its value found above, we have the lateral motion equal to
αeD
. 2(r+e)∙
We have now to obtain the necessary displacement by means of the centrifugal force, and for this purpose putting r=radius of curvature,
V=velocity,
tt!=mass of the moving body,
y=32
⅙
, or the accelerating force Ofgravitation in 1 second, jf=the centrifugal force produced on the curve,
V2
we have
f=m —,
but P=the weight of the same body, we have P=<∕ra,
P
or    
m=—,
<7
PV2
a ,,d    .
J gr ’
making a foot in each case for the unit of space, and a second for the unit of time, we get the measure of the centrifugal force represented by its proportion to the weight P. Thus on a curve of 500 feet radius, at a velocity of 20 miles an hour, or 29, 25 feet per second, we have
2+25)
∖
j ~ ' 32j.500
or about τ ⅛ . P, the effect of which force in the direction of the radius, will of course be to press the carriages against the outside rail till the flange of the wheel stops them ; and the elevation of the outer rail must be such that the centrifugal force is so balanced by the natural tendency from gravitation, by which the carriages would slide towards the inner rail, that the coned wheel corrects the effect of curvature without producing a friction on the flange,
calling y=the elevation of the outside rail,
2e=the breadth of the way,
the inclination of the plane on which the carriage wheels are placed, will be
y
2e’
and the gravity of a body weighing P, will be
⅛
2e ,
and this force tending to bring the carriages towards the in-
ner rail while the centrifugal force Ç-^occasion them
to approach the outer one, the height
y
of the outer rail above the inner one, if we wish the carriages to run in the middle of the rails, must evidently be taken, so that
Py Pn2 2e- yr’
in which case we have an equilibrium between the two forces. But we require a tendency outwards to correct for the curvature, putting this=/,, we get
αeD . μ- 2(r + e)
If we suppose this lateral displacement to have taken place,
the inclination of the plane on which the carriages will be, is
y
2e— μ’
whilst, at the same time, from the coned form of the wheels,
the tire having an inclination -, this lateral deviation to
a
the extent
μ,
has produced a difference of height in both wheels amounting to ± -, that is to say, the outer wheel
will be raised -, and the inner wheel lowered -, and the
a a
result or total inclination — will have to be added to that
a
which has been produced by the difference between the height of the rails, hence, the outer wheel will be raised
2μ
y+ Ti
and as the base between the bearing points is
2e—μ,
the carriage will be on a plane equal to
2μ
y+fl 2e—μ
consequently to establish the equilibrium between gravitation and the centrifugal force required in practice, we must have
y+-
y+ a
_ PV2
p ∙ 2e-μ - gr ’
.    2V2 eα+V2 αu—
2μgr
whence «=-—-
C—
-Ξ-<
α gr
2V2 C V> 2/4
— gr + gr — a
(2
αp
gD
gr '
∖
   
2(r+e)Λ r+e’
by which formula the table of surplus elevation for the outer rail has been computed, and of course the value of the radius of curvature, or any other element may be found, the others being given. As an example of the calculation, let
us take the inclination of the wheel, or -= I ; the veloci-
a 7
city = 29, 25 feet per second ; the breadth of the way = 4 feet 8½ inches, or e=2∙3542 feet, D =3 feet, when properly situated on the rail, and r=500 feet, we then have
...    193
withy=—,
_2-3542.2fr25)2 ∕o 7.3    
∖
    2-3542.3
y~
193
en
' V-
2(500+2∙3542)Λ500+2∙3542
~6
    .500
_2-3542.855-5625 ∕    21    
∖
    7∙0626
-    96500    ’
∖
2 ^~ 1004∙7084/ - 502-3542
_2-3542.855∙5625.6 (2 _ .0209006) _ .014059 yθθUU
2-3542.5133-375
=-ES-∙
∣
∙9l90994-∙0140≈9
= X4 ,'9al4a
. l∙9790994-∙014059 96500
= 0-125233. 1-9790994 —-014059 = 0-247848 —-014059 = 0-233789 feet, or 2-8 inches.
We have here supposed
a —Ί,
or the inclination of the
tire of the wheel to == 1 ; but it is evident this must be such,
that no rubbing of the flange will be produced on any curve on the line. We obtain this from the equation
aeD
μ ~ 2(r—
e)'
We first establish the play between the rails. Allow this to be two inches, or that the flanges of the wheels in their regular position are 1 inch from the rails ; then
μ
must never be quite equal to 1 inch, and if we give to
r
in the last equation above, its numerical value for the worst curve on the line, and to
μ
its limit, a small quantity less than half the play of the wheels, we obtain the value of
a,
which we must use on that line, as follows :
_2^(r+ e) α ~ eD '
For instance, with half thc play = 1 inch, or ∙0833 feet and μ=0∙9 inches, or, 075 feet, we haveα=    =
or the inclination of the cone =    of a foot ; observ-
10∙67
ing that if we have only one or two bad curves, we must examine whether we may not admit a little rubbing on them for a corresponding gain on the good ones. This investigation will shew how necessary it is that the play of the axles on the carriages should be as small ns can possibly be, or the effect of the coned wheels will be completely deranged. This is a matter which is much too little attended to in practice.
There is nothing in a railway which demands such serious attention as the stations, both as to their numbers, position, and the mode of constructing them. The number and situation will of course be mainly determined by the nature and extentof the surrounding population ; and the first step should be to get a good map of all the places within the sphere of the railway, and to mark upon it thc population of each place from the last parliamentary census ; bearing in mind, that taking, for the present, railway-travelling to be twice as fast at half the cost of coach travelling, that a very wide portion of country will receive the benefit of a long line. We have explained this before ; but that it may be perfectly understood, we shall shortly advert to it in a different shape.
For instance, suppose a line 100 miles long, and a person 50 miles at right angles to one end of it, who wants to go to the other end. If he travelled in a stage-coach along the hypothenuse of the triangle, he would go about 112 miles, say at 4d. per mile, his total cost would be L.l, 17s. 4d., and his time expended about 11¼ hours. On the contrary, if he came first to the terminus of the railway nearest him, and then went along the railway to the other terminus, he would have first 50 miles in a stage-coach at 4d., or 16s. 8d., with an expenditure of time equal to 5 hours, and then 100 miles by the railway at 2d., or 16s. 8d. more in 5 hours, the total time being 10 hours, and the total expense L.l, 13s. 4d., consequently he would save 4s. in money, and l¼ hours in time, by taking the longest road.
There is no doubt but that the greater the number of stations, the more the travelling will increase ; for it has always been hitherto found that the quick and cheap transit by a railway has not only increased the already existing traffic, but has actually created it where no traces could be found of it before. The nature of the produce, and the state of trade should also be taken into account in determining both the number and the situation of the stations.
The minor stations along the line may be divided into two classes. The first might consist of merely one room, serving for office and waiting-room, where nothingbutpassengersand small parcels are sent either upor down. Such stations would do for small villages or points where only a limited traffic is expected. We do not, however, recommend these, although they are used on several railways. All passengers pay alike, and they are therefore entitled to the same accommodation. The other class should be a house containing an office, waiting-room in common, or which is better, one for each class of passengers, ladies’ waiting-room, and two rooms for the inspector of police to reside in, a small office for the police, and a porter’s room. To this would have to be added, if water was required to be pumped, a steam-engine, and the requisite room for the engineer, a locomotive engine-house when necessary, and a covered space for holding spare carriages, trucks, horse-boxes, &c., together with the requisite sheds, and an office for the goods department.
The entrance to the station should be protected from the weather, so that when carriages drive up, the passengers can alight under shelter, and there should be a platform next the railway, about the same height as the carriage floors, so that the passengers can walk into the railway-carriages without having to climb up the steps. Arrangements should be made, for the passengers who are going into the carriages to go all in upon one side, and those going out should get out from the other side ; for which purpose the entrance should be on one side of the railway, and the exit on the other side. A light roof should be thrown over both lines of rails and their stages ; in fact, the passengers should be entirely under cover from the time of leaving the vehicles which bring them to the station, till the time the train takcs them away. This occasions very little expense, and is a great addition both to health and to comfort.
For such a station two clerks would be required, one for passengers, parcels, and private carriages, tile other for goods. The mode of conducting the business we shall advert to in its proper place. An inspector, and about four policemen, with porters, according to the extent of the traffic, would probably be sufficient ; the whole should be well lighted up with gas, if it can be conveniently got; and it would much conduce to the comfort of the passengers, particularly ladies, if a decent female attended in the waiting-room, and had for sale pastry, biscuits, or sandwiches, with lemonade and ginger beer.
Great care should be taken at each out-station, that the following things can all be simultaneously performed, viz. First, that the train can be setting down passengers on the one side who are going to remain ; secondly, taking up passengers on the other side who are going on, and this on both lines; thirdly, that the engine can be taking in coke and water, and also raking her fire, for which purpose, a small coke store should be built close to the water crane, and an ash pit properly excavated in the requisite position ; and, lastly, that horses and private carriages can be in a situation to enable them to be attached to and detached from the train, at the same time as the other things enumerated above are being done. It will also be requisite, that the same care be taken at the goods’ station, but goods’ waggons should also be able to be attached to and detached from passengers’ trains, as they will often be useful, when the traffic in passengers runs a good deal one way, in completing the load of the engine, and economising the outlay in locomotive power.
To explain how this is to be done, let us suppose a line of railway running north and south, and that the east line of rails is that by which the trains arrive when going from north to south, and the west line of rails is that by which they arrive when going from south to north. For the east line of rails, the water crane should be so far to the south of the station, that with an average number of carriages in the train, when the tender is under the crane, the middle of the train is opposite the station house. The position of
the crane fixes that of the ash pit and coke store. The passengers alighting get down from the west side of the carriages, and go out from the west side of the railway. The passengers who are getting up, do so on the east side of the carriages, and come to the carriages from the east side of the railway.
The horses and carriages which are to leave the train, must, of course, be at the end of it. These, when detached, are to be run back, or to the northward, where a tumplate should be fixed to take them up by the cross line, to the spot where they are to be landed. This spot, which should be a third line of rails farther east, should be so far to the northward of the station house, that a siding can be run from the third or extra line of rails into the main east line, so as to beclearof the end of the train; andon this Sidingshould be the embarked carriages which are to join the train. On the west side of the railway, there should be another additional line of rails, with a cross line from it to the place where thecarriages areembarked. Alongthis line the goods may be brought. It will be readily seen that all the required objects will be effected by this arrangement.
For the western line, the water crane should be sufficiently to the north of the station, to allow the centre of an average train to be opposite the station-house, when the tender is under the crane. The ash-pit and coke-store are, as in the previous case, regulated by the position of the crane. The passengers w'ho are leaving the train, get out on the eastern side of the carriages, and leave the railway also on the eastern side. The passengers who are to join the train are waiting on the western side, and get into the carriages on that side. The horses and carriages which are to leave the train, are run back to the southward, past the siding from the west additional line by which those come on which are joining it, and are brought back to that siding, when clear of the carriages joining the train. By the siding they get on to the west additional line, and going to the northward, are taken across as soon as the train has left, and are disembarked at the proper spot.
Goods joining or leaving the train arc managed exactly in the same way. Those which are to leave it being run back on the main line, till past the Sidingbywhich those comeinto the main line which are to join the train ; and when these are clear, those which left the train a.re to be brought to the siding, and run into the goods’ station. Proper waiting rooms for the passengers should, of course, be provided on each side of the railway, and their exit and entrance will be by stairs, either up or down, as the station is situated on an embarkment or in a cutting. A foot-bridge may sometimes be thrown across with advantage.
There is such a decided convenience in having all stations on a level, that we should strongly recommend them to be placed so wherever it is at all practicable, even if there is some little sacrificed in another point of view ; but this is a matter which will, in general, be so completely governed by the localities, that it may not be possible, in many cases, to attain it. When this happens, however, great care must be taken to make the approaches wide, and of a gentle slope.
As the works proceed towards completion, so many causes will arise to engage the engineers and directors, even without the occurrence of any particularly great accidents, that on all the leading questions time should be taken by the forelock. Springs of water, rock, and quicksands, will be met with where least expected perhaps, and the constant exertion of every talent will be required towards the close of the works. Good drainage will be most wanted when least at command ; and work done with wet materials will be always slipping. Many times have embankments made of wet clayey earth slipped at all kinds of slopes ; and although hundreds of cubic yards of dry material have been tipped on to them, they have been swallowed up and totally dis
appeared, whilst, at last, the only remedy to be found was weighting the slip itself with a sufficient quantity of earth to enable it to bear the embankment above.
When rock occurs at any height up the sides of an excavation, advantage may sometimes be taken of it to decrease the expense, by cutting only a sufficient width for the railway, and having no slope to the earth below the rock, but building up retaining walls from the railway below when bottomed out to the rock above, or what is called undersetting, an example of which may be seen at the great Blis-worth cutting on the London and Birmingham railway. (See Plate CCCCXXVL figs. 2, 3, 4.)
It will often happen that many parts of the permanent way are laid prior to its being possible to open either end of the line for traffic. These had better be kept in repair by the contractor ; but when the line is once opened, or any part of it, for the purpose of travelling, it will be much the best way for the company themselves to keep it in order, taking especial care that the contractor repays them a proper price for so doing. The consequences of any accident by the engine or carriages getting thrown off the rails are so frightful, that no attention and expense can be thought too great which can prevent such an occurrence. We have seen instances in which carriages have undergone so complete a smash, that not a square foot of plank could be picked up anywhere.
A set of plate-layers consists of nine men for tumplates ; twelve for laying rails ; five for repairing the way ; and six for laying in points and crossings.
To each set, the following tools will be required :—
2 chissel-ended crowbars for drawing spikes.
1 point-ended crowbar for moving rails, the point being put in the ground.
1 claw-ended crowbar.
1 cuddy or three-legged stand for the levers, so called from the name of the inventor. (Fig. 19.)
2 guages for the distance between the rails. (Fig. 20.) 1 spirit level. (Fig. 21.)
1 beetle, 6 inches diameter and 20 inches long, for drawing down sleepers. (Fig. 22.)
4 punning rammers. (Fig. 23.)
2 adzes for trimming the sleepers to receive the chairs. (Fig· 24.)
2 levers. (Flg. 25.)
2 sets of sights. (Fig. 26.)
4 beaters or wooden picks for ramming ballast under the sleepers. (Fig. 27.)
2 swivel or cramp crowbars, similar to a tooth-drawer, for drawing spikes without heads, 4 pick axes, 2 files to file the joints, 2 shifting wrenches for screwing up seats, 1 turn-plate to trim the sleepers to, 12 block drills, 4 hammers to ditto, 4 keying hammers, 2 chipping hammers, 1 sledge hammer, 4 cast-steel chisels for cutting joints, 12 f-inch augurs,
1 handsaw, 1 axe, 1 hand-drill for drilling turnplates, 4 sets of chisels with wood-rods for handles, similar to blacksmiths’.
The foregoing tools will enable them to fit in points and crossings, switches or turnplates, as well as to lay the line. Of course when there are sets of plate-layers wholly working at blocks, and other sets wholly working at sleepers, the tools which do not relate to the work they are engaged in, may be kept back. The above list has reference to chairs having wooden keys ; for any other kind of chair, if necessary, an adequate alteration must be made. One standard guage should be kept in the engineer’s office for the width of the rails, and another for the width between the lines, and all others constructed from it ; and they ought to be made of iron.
The engine-man should always stand by his hand-gear whilst the engine is running, and keep a most vigilant look out before him, passing all out-stations or stopping places slowly, and upon discovering any train at a stand still, he should approach and pass it at no greater speed than three miles an hour. Should any train require the assistance of a ballast-engine, it should be immediately given on an application to that effect from the upper guard, the engine-man first placing his waggons on a siding ; but the ballast-engine should not draw the train any farther than is necessary to place it under the charge of a regular passenger or goods’ engine ; and it should then return to its waggons in such a manner as not to interfere with the next train coming along the line. Every ballast-engine Bhouldbeprovidedwitllproper spanners, and other requisite tools, for the safe custody of which the engine-man should be responsible. During a fog the engine should be moved slowly, and the whistle be blown at not greater intervals than a quarter of a mile. Fogs, however, will always be dangerous on railways till two whistles totally different in sound are used, one for each line, blowing by machinery at every eighth part of a mile. When the ballast-engines stop in a fog on the line, the fireman should be sent at least 400 yards a-head to look out.
It is Yhe duty of the engine-men to take care that the engines are in a proper state of cleanliness and efficiency before they quit the engine-house, that every part is in proper and complete working order, and that the regular supply of coke and water is in both the engine and the tender, together w ith the requisite quantity of oil and waste ; and he should personally inspect his tool-box, and ascertain that every thing is in it which by rights should be so, and that his shovels, rakes, &c. are in readiness. He should carefully examine all his oil cups and syphon wicks, his water guage, and every other part of the engine, and when he sets her a-going, try his pumps on both sides, and also his hand-gear. According to the distance the engine-house is from the point where he hooks on the train, time must be allowed him before the minute of departure sufficient to let him arrive at the required spot about one minute before he is wanted, and no more.
He should be very careful in bringing his engine down to the head of the train, where the connection should be' made by a man specially appointed for the purpose. He should leave his condensed steam cock open as long as he can, being very cautious that it is shut just before the time of departure. During the journey he, in conjunction with his fireman, should keep a vigilant look-out for all signals of danger, watching each policeman as he approaches him till he has made his notification that all is in security along his part of the line. He must be attentive to stopping the train at the places ordered, and that he does not exceed the regulated speed, considering correctness of arrival his greatest aim, and consequently making up as far as he can in one part of his journey for any unavoidable detentions which may have arisen in other parts.
He should be very attentive to his watcr-guage, and test it, whenever he thinks it necessary, by his guage-cock. This, hon’evcr, should be done as little as possible if he have confidence in the water-gauge. He should never use his pumps without turning his pet-cocks, and ascertaining by them that every thing is working properly for the injection of the water ; particularly when one pump has got out of order, that if any thing should happen to the other he may instantly stop the engine and examine both of them, the necessary tools for which should be in his tool-box. He should always when practicable take the Ojlportunity of pumping in water when going down inclinations, or at other favourable times. He should attend well to his rakings, and should be careful not to put on too much coke at once, unless he is very strong in steam ; he should be constantly alert to the signals from the guard of the train, and ready to stop it in the shortest possible time when ordered to do so. The guard should have a check-string to the arm of the engine-man, and a flexible hollow tube should be fixed from the guard’s carriage to the engine, through which the men can converse, which the noise of the engine and train will otherwise render difficult.
After completing his journey, and placing his engine near the engine house over the ash pit, he should see the fire carefully raked out, and if his engine requires blowing off, he should take it to the projιer place for doing so, and then applyforthe Hecessaryassistance toplace it afterwards in the engine-house. But if it should not require to be blown off, he must of course proceed to the engine-house as soon as his fire is out, and having placed his engine in security, he should make his report to the foreman of all circumstances relative to the journey, and of any defects in the line, or in the engine, that he may have noticed, and the correct cause of all detentions which may have taken place. The engine should be examined and cleaned by proper persons appointed for that purpose ; but this should not supersede the necessity of the engine-man personally investigating, before he starts on a journey, that every thing is in correct ordcr. A great deal of expense in cleaning engines, as well as in their wear, would be saved by using a tarpaulin covering down each side from the boiler, to protect the machinery from rain. The engine-man should also have a fencing from the wet over the place where he stands.
The resident engineer who takes charge of the line when opened, should draw every thing by requisition from the storekeeper. The overseer should, in the first place, make out his weekly pay-bill, which should be checked by the time-book of the respective timekeepers; and when signed by the engineer, it should be forwarded to the audit-office, and the pay sent down to the booking-clerks of the adjacent stations, who should pay the men in the presence of the overseer, each man signing his name to attest the reception of the money. The necessary clerks and draftsmen for this part of the engineering department should also be paid weekly in the same way.
We have never yet seen a good mile mark on a railway,
the object apparently being merely to comply with the act of Parliament, certainly not to let the passengers see the miles, for the marks are generally so short, that all persons in the middle seats of the carriages have no chance whatever of seeing them. What we should recommend would be light iron posts having a box on the top. The box may be made triangular in its ground-plan, (Plate CCCCXXV. fig. 5,) and be about one foot in height, the apex of the most obtuse angle facing the railway. This angle should be so obtuse as merely to allow room in the box to hang a small lamp, and the two sides which form this angle being made of glass, should be painted or ground, except the figures, which are left clear. These shew the miles by day, and the nearest policeman lighting the lamp, they are also shewn at night. Or the planes forming the sides of the triangle next the railway may be of sheet iron, with the figures cut out of it, and merely that portion covered with glass ; in either case the head must have
a
lid moving on a hinge. The height of these should be just half way up the carriage windows. In the cuttings, the post should be very short, and the mile mark set back on the slope. On the embankments it will be proportionally longer. It may have holes, or other ornaments, cast in its base, serving for steps to get up to light the lamp ; or this may be done with projecting rings, and a slide may be made to receive coloured glass as a signal of any accident.
When such mile marks as these are not adopted, and it is desired to know the velocity of a train at night, this may be readily done whenever the blast pipe of the engine sounds sufficiently loud to be heard, which is generally the case in most engines. The way to ascertain the speed at which the train is going, will be to count every fourth puff from the blast pipe in ten seconds, this giving one revolution of the driving wheels, and the speed will be had by the following table :
The rapidity with which the cylinders of steam are expelled through the blast pipe, would at any common velocity prevent every puff being counted ; but a very little practice will render the counting of every fourth one exceedingly easy, and the rate of going may always be found to the nearest half mile, by those who have only tried this method three or four times. A still easier method, although it will not generally be quite so accurate, is as follows : For five-feet wheels, count the number of fourth puffs in ten seconds and three quarters, and these will be the number of miles per hour the engine is going ; and for five feet six wheels, count the number of fourth puffs in eleven seconds and three quarters. The exact number of seconds is
10∙7 
and 11∙78. The method by the tables however is the best.
Paved crossings on a level with the railway are things to be avoided by all means whenever it is practicable to do so ; but as some cases will arise where they cannot be done away with, we must render them as little liable to danger as possible. We have given drawings of these, (figs. 29, 30, and 3l,) and an approved form of chair (fig. 28), which holds the rail, and also the two protecting irons, which should be laid next to the rails, in order that the wheels of those vehicles which cross the railway may not impinge upon the rails and injure them any more than can be helped. The whole crossing should be well paved with the usual road stones, and there must be strong gates on each side. These gates must be constructed so that when shut they may close up the road on either hand, and when open, may form a barrier across the railway.
The subject of lamps forms one to which attention is required, and we should recommend all railways to make a rcd light at night and a red flag by day, the symbols of danger. A green light should be placed at each station at the spot where the engine-man should slacken his speed, and a red light at the point where he is to stop. The police should have hand lanthoms, with a white glass and a red one, which latter can be turned round in an instant, whenever any thing obstructs the passage of the railway ; and the light held up at any train approaching, on seeing which the train is immediately to stop. A green glass may also be added, the signification of which would be, proceed with caution ; the train should then come slowly on and ascertain the reason for the signal.
For lighting the insides of the carriages, the roof lamps, contrived by the writer of this article, and patented, are the best. The frame is circular, about six inches in diameter, and about nine inches in height; the bottom is formed of a ground glass saucer, which is let through the roof of the coach, the top being protected by a box ; on the inside is a small fountain lamp, on an improved principle, which is very nearly shadowless ; the whole of the lamp body being above the frame, and the connection between them consisting of a tube¼l δ ths of an inch in thickness, which tube should always be turned towards the carriage door. These give a soft mellow light, by which the passengers may easily read.
Point signals should be made in the following manner.
The sliding rail, which forms the communication from one ’ line of rails to the other, and which is moved by an eccentric, turned by a lever handle, should have, on the other side of the line, an iron rod from the rail, going into a box at its end with a pinion on it. This pinioned end of the rod turns a rack when the sliding rail is moved, which rack is contained in the box, and is fixed to a vertical rod, moveable in an upright post, similar to a lamp post, through the top of which, about four feet in height, the upper end of the rod comes out for about six inches, and is in this part made square. On this square part there is put a lamp by night, to shew a white light when the points are right, and a red one when they are wrong ; so that whenever the sliding rail is moved, it of necessity turns the light round, and cannot fail to place the different colours in front of the line of rails to which the signal is meant to apply.
In the day time the lamp is removed from the square, which, however, is not necessary, and the same signal is made visible by two circular hoops covered with canvass, one being painted red and the other white, and one being fixed on the top of the other at right angles to it ; or the hoops may be one inside the other, at the same height and at right angles, nothing more being necessary than that the signal should be such that when combined in this way, the sliding rail can never move without the signal also moving, which should shew white when the points are right, and red when they are wrong. These things, however, will never be properly correct till the engine itself is made to turn the points, which has often been tried, and is considered as having tailed, but may certainly be done with ease and effect.
Self-acting alarms, with gong-shaped bells standing upright and fixed about twelve feet high to a wall, should be supplied to each station, and they should be wound up by men stationed at them, who may also act as policemen. These alarms are for the purpose of giving notice to the station-people of the arrival of a train. Two minutes are sufficient time in ordinary cases, and, with active men, one would suffice, and proper regulations must be established to ensure this space of time. On the train arriving at the proper spot, the man stationed at the alarm pulls a trigger, which allows a weight to descend. This turns a wheel, and this wheel works a pinion, to which is attached an eccentric, which gives motion to the clapper from side to side, and the alarm is struck by the hammer in the usual way, the man stationed at it being at liberty to attend to any other business the instant he has pulled the string. A large station-bell is also useful to summon all the persons to their posts at unusual times, in order to receive any unexpected trains, and for many other reasons. A bell should also run from the station office at the out-stations, to summon one or more porters inside the office.
A good means of preventing accidents would be, to have the engine-man in the front of the engine. If any thingcould ensure care, this would, the generality of engine-men being quite foolhardy ; a defect which will never be remedied till we have a distinct class of men educated and brought up for engine-men from their youth, to whom should be given such a salary as would bring in young men Ofrespectability.
In Plate CCCCXXV, fig. 3, we have given a plan of an invalid carriage, capable of containing four invalids and their four attendants, (α,
a)
are the seats for the passengers, one on each side of the firεt and second bodies of the carriage being for the invalid, and the opposite one, lengthways of the carriage, being for the attendants When the invalid wishes for the use of the closet, he comes out by the door (Z>) into the middle part of the coach (<∕), which is a gallery with a raised roof, as in fig. 2. There are three portable water-closets
(c)
in this carriage, or the middle one, if thought more desirable, may be merely an urinal ; the centre one, to whatever purpose it may be converted, is arrived at from the gallery by the door (e), and the right and left-hand clo
sets by the doors
(Jg) (fg)
respectively. The ventilation here would be very perfect, and no inconvenience whatever could arise to any one of the passengers. An attendant Ije-longing to the railway company could attend on all the passengers remaining in the gallery
(d)
till his assistance was required, for which purpose a bell might be hung with pulls in each compartment. By this arrangement double the number of invalids could in each case be accommodated with a passage.
The following are the engines in use on the London and Birmingham railway, and which were made by Mr. Bury of Liverpool. The description here given applies to both the passenger and goods’ engines, except when otherwise stated.
The two cylinders are to have an l8-inch stroke, those of the passenger engines being 12 inches, and the goods’ engines 13 inches in diameter, with single slide valves, brass spring pistons, and cast iron packing ; the cover of each cylinder having one oil.cup., The boilers are made of the best YorkshireplatesjeitherBowlingorLowmoor. The fire-boxes are of the same material, and are welded so as not to have the rivets or lap exposed immediately to the action of the fire. They are 3-8ths of an inch thick, the back plates half an inch, the outside of the fire-box and the backplate 3-8ths of an inch, and the rest of the boiler -1 ⅝ths of an inch. Full-sized drawings are furnished to shew how the plates are to be worked ; the plate for the tubes at the smoke-box end is half an inch thick, and a lead plug, 5-8ths of an inch in diameter, is riveted in the crown of the fire-box.
The tubes are two inches indiameterinside,andare secured with steel hoops at the fire-box end, and iron hoops at the chimney end. These hoops are made to a given guage ; and the tubes are of the best rolled brass, No. 14 wire guage thick ; the arrangement as well as the exact size of the tubes being regulated by a template.
The engines have four wheels ; those for the passengers are 5½ and 4 feet in diameter, and those for the goods are each pair 5 feet in diameter. Each wheel has a cast iron centre ; and the spokes are of wrought iron, accurately fitted into the nave. Thetireconsists of two thicknesses, the inner being 3-4 ths of an inch when finished, of the best Staffordshire iron, well secured to the end of the spokes by riveting, the ends of the spokes having been previously turned in their exact position. The outside tire is made of the very best Bowling or Lowmoor iron Igths inches thick when finished. When the outside of the inner tire has been well riveted to the spokes it is turned ; and the inside of the outer tire having been accurately bored, so as to secure a perfect fit, it is then shrunk on, and the outside turned and finished. The naves are bored out, and the axles turned to fit ; they are secured on by two steel keys, one inch square, at right angles with each other. The goods’ engine wheels are connected on the outside by a rod, with a ball pin at one end, and a parallel pin at the other. These engines have also a damper to their blast pipe.
The crank axles are made from Backbarrow iron, cut out of solid blocks, and finished according to full-sized drawings. The straight axles are made of the very best scrap iron. The framing of the engine is of wrought iron accurately fitted. There is one pump attached to each cross-head, and made of good tough brass, the suction pieces being connected by Macintosh hose pipes, with screw coupling joints next the engine. The eccentrics are fixed on the crank axles in the mode shewn by drawings. The steam and exhausting pipes are of copper, No. 12 wire guage in thickness. When these engines are made by other persons, templates and full-sized working drawings are given out, from which no deviation whatever is allowed without Mr. Bury's approbation, so as to secure all parts of the engines matching each other.
The top of the fire-box has a copper cover, No. 16 wire guage tllick, secured to the wooden covering on the lower
part of the fire-box and body of the boiler, by screw’s two inches apart. The wooden covering on the fire-box is finished to ⅝ ∙⅛ thick, and is made fast to the boiler by two hoops ; and round the fire door it is lined with thin sheet iron under the hoops ; the sheets being 6 feet long, and 2 feet 3 inches broad, with a hole cut out for the furnace, and secured at the ends by screw nails 2 inches apart, to prevent the fire from burning the wood casing on the boiler. The casing on the barrel of the boiler is secured by four hoops, with a strip of brass under the fore-end hoop, about 2½ inches in breadth, to cover the ends of the lining and the rivet heads at the junction of the barrel of the boiler, and the smoke-box. The boiler is wrapped in at least three thicknesses of flannel all over.
The lagging on the boiler is put together with iron feathers I by ⅛ ; the boiler is covered over the lagging with thin sheet lead, about 3½ feet broad along the top of the barrel. The smoke-box is No. 7 wire guage thick, and the chimney is No. 13 wire guage. The cover on the lockup safety valve is of brass, secured to the boiler ; there is a brass frame round the door of the smoke-box, and a brass handle to the small door in the middle of the large one.
All the pins of the joints are of steel, and hardened when practicable, but if not, they are steeled and hardened, and the working parts of the engine, which are of iron, are case-hardened. In making the boilers, the sharp edges of the rivet holes are taken off on both sides, and the rivets and rivet heads made to correspond. The engines are furnished with a wooden guard, and two leather buffers stuffed with cotton flock ; and there are a draw-bar, draw-pin, and loop in the centre of the wooden guard, to connect them to the tender. They have three water guage cocks, and a glass water guage, with a lamp stand ; also a whistle, and a number plate on each side of the boiler ; and they are furnished with a complete set of screw-keys.
All the screws in all the engines correspond, for which purpose, either master taps, or sets of stocks and dies, at the option of other makers, are furnished them by Mr. Bury. They receive tw, o coats of paint, and are finished with two coats of the best varnish. They are guaranteed for one month, or 1000 miles, during which trial, no other work is allowed but the tightening of cotters, and the very best workmanship and materials that can be produced, are in all cases rigidly insisted on.
The framing of the tenders is of well-seasoned oak, or ash timber, thoroughly secured with iron knees and bolts, having an iron box, No. 7 wire guage thick, underneath, to carry the coke, which box is secured to the wooden frame. The tank contains 700 gallons of water. The wheels are of cast-iron, turned to receive a tire of either Bowling or Lowmoor iron, bored out to secure a perfect fit, and finished to 1¼ inches thick. The axles are 3¼ inches in thickness, of the best hammered scrap iron ; and the journals are 2¼ inches in diameter, case-hardencd, with brass bushes and oil box.
The Steadiment for the axles consists of two plates, one outside, and the other inside the framing ; both of them being bolted through the framing, and secured together below, by a piece of iron between the plates for steadying the axle bushes. These are made completely parallel, and the bushes fitted into these so as to move up and down, but in no other direction. The tenders have buffers, a spring to which the load is attached, and also four springs by which they are supported, one over each oil box.
The tank is No. 10 wire guage thick, having two brass cocks or valves, and rod handles with bushes for the top of the rods ; also two copper pipes, 1¾ inches in diameter, for carrying water from the tender to the engine. The tender frame and tank have two coats of paint inside and out, and two coats of varnish. They are fitted up with a brake, and furnished with a complete tool box ; a wire sieve in the main hole of the tank to prevent dirt or water from getting into the tank ; and two Macintosh hose pipes, one to each suction piece, with the necessary connexion to attach them to the engine.
When water requires to be pumped from the tender into the boiler of the engine, previous to the starting of the train, it is the usual practice to run the engine backwards and for-wτ ards for a short distance, in order to work the force pumps. This increases the wear and tear both of the engine and the road, besides inducing a liability in a crowded station of running foul of something, if great care be not taken. The following contrivance will obviate the necessity of this inconvenient method of filling the boiler. A square pit should be sunk in some convenient part of the line, selected with reference to its intended use. This pit should be large enough to admit a pair of three-feet wheels fixed on an axle similar to the carriage wheels. There should be no flanges, and a part of the circumference Ofthesewheelsshould come up through the rails, which must be cut so as to admit them, additional chairs being put in to support the ends of the rails. This part of the circumference of the wheels thus becomes a part of the railway, the wheels being made to lock at pleasure ; but when the engine requires to pump water into the boiler, it must be brought with its driving wheels directly on those in the pit, and these latter being then unlocked, the steam is let gradually on, and the pumps worked as long as is found necessary to fill the boiler, without the engine advancing from the exact spot in which it was first placed, the only effect produced by the driving wheels of the engine, being to turn round the wheels fixed in the pit. When the boiler is filled, the pit wheels are locked, and the engine proceeds to the performance of her assigned duty. How much more advantageous this mode of filling the boiler is, will be readily seen, particularlywhen it is remembered that if engine-men are not looked well after, they will oil the driving wheels and the rails when in the engine-house, and then letting on the steam, fill their boiler by means of the wheels slipping round on the rails. We have often seen this carried to such an extent, that streams of sparks have been struck out by the attrition. When no better plan can be obtained, the engine should have one end lifted by screw-jacks, till the driving wheels are off the rails, and the steam may then be let on without any damage being done.
The Caliban engine, made by Sharp, Roberts, and Company, of Manchester, drew 80 tons up an inclination of 1 in 180, on the Grand Junction Railway, for 3¼ miles, at 13¼ miles per hour, at a steam pressure of 50 lbs. per square inch, and with a consumption of coke of 480 lbs. The average of 14 trips of three quarters of a mile each, up 1 in 90, from Euston Square to Camden Town, on the London and Birmingham railway, with the great engine made by Robert Stephenson and Company to work the trains up the inclination till the fixed engine was ready, amounted to 15 miles an hour, with 70 tons, viz. 14 carriages and 148 passengers, at a steam pressure of 50 lbs. per square inch. The average of 12 trips of 24¾ miles, up 1 in 440, on the Grand Junction Railway, with six engines, three made by Robert Stephenson and Company, and three by Sharp, Roberts, and Company, was 23¾ miles per hour, with a weight of 58 tons. The coke consumed was 864 lbs., and the steam power 48 lbs. per square inch ; this coke, however, was very bad. The average of 14 trips of 23 miles, up 1 in 440, on the London and Birmingham line, with No. 16 engine, built by Mr. Hawthorn of Newcastle, was 22 miles an hour, with a gross weight, including the tender, of 70 tons. The coke consumed w, as 486 lbs., and the steam pressure 48. The engine No. 7, on the London and Birmingham line, built by Mr. Bury of Liverpool, went 10 miles in ten minutes, 3d October 1838, with only one cylinder working, namely, from Hampton to Birmingham, being for 4½ miles, up 1 in 660, 3½ miles, up
1 
in 1370 ; the rest of the way was level, and the time included the getting up and slacking down the speed.
Wllilst such machines as these can be turned out of hand, we may rest satisfied, although considerable improvements will doubtless be yet made, great difference of opinion still existing respecting the proper size of the driving wheels, which may either be made larger to give an increased speed, or keeping the speed the same, the piston may move with less velocity, either of which is a desideratum. The crank axle mayalso be done away with, as Dr. Church has exemplified in his engine, or by other means, or it may be cut out of solid iron. At present, too, the steam whistle, which can be heard several miles in a still day, is only made use of to warn persons of the time when the engine is approaching them. How much better would it be to have two of these with totally distinct sounds, one to be used on the arrival line, and the other on the departure line ? Each would then not only perform its present office as an alarm, but would form the most complete fog and night signal that could be desired, and would at all times, in the densest fog or the darkest night, give perfectnoticewhenever two engines approached each other, on which line each was travelling, and thus prevent almost the possibility of a collision.
There has so seldom been an instance of a locomotive engine boiler bursting, that it is perhaps hardly necessary to advert to such an accident. We know only of two amongst the tubular boilers. One happened lately on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, apparently from the boiler being used till the rivets got so worn, that they were weaker than the tubes. The fire-box end of the boiler was blown out, and the above is the only way of accounting for it, as tubes must always bear a steam of 50 lbs. on the square inch. Of course when new, they bear considerably more, and their form gives every advantage to their strength, the pressure on them being inwards, whilst on the boiler it is outwards. It is also known that the safety valve was held down. The second instance occurred on the Brussels railroad. In this case, the lock-up safety valve was found to be loaded to 105 lbs. upon the square inch ; and it had also been screwed down more on one side than on the other. These valves are held down by a series of elliptical springs, which move on a guide Todpassingthroughtheircentres. Whentheyarenot screwed down equally on both sides, their position becomes diagonal, and they jamb on the guide road instead of working easily, as they do when rightly managed. Safety, in all the usual cases, is insured by having a fusible plug on the top of the fire-box, composed of four parts lead and one part tin. This will melt before any danger can arise, and the steam will rush into the furnace. The late American experiments on this head may be consulted with advantage ; but the mystery has not yet been unravelled. We have had an open vat burst in Meux’s brewery ; and in two instances boilers have been suffered to get quite cold. Theman-Iiole has then been opened, and a person has gone inside, but soon afterwards, in each instance, upon their introducing a lighted candle, explosions took place, and they were in both cases killed. Gas generated by boilers getting red hot, and absorbing the oxygen, has been supposed to be a leading cause ; this, however, is exceedingly doubtful. If such be the case, it might be well to try protecting them by means of another metal. It would also be a good thing to rotate the safety valve, which is locked up from the engine-man, by machinery, to prevent any improper adhesion, and by using a mercurial steam guage, nearly all blowing-off at the safety valve might be avoided, which now often amounts to one-fourth of the generated steam. The boiler tubes, as now made, are capable of running 30,000 miles. The want of adhesion so much talked of, is found to be nonsense, and if there had been any, it would only be necessary, as the writer of this article suggested several years ago, to connect a galvanic magnet with one or more of the axles, to act on the rails, by which means, with the addition of only a few pounds, an adhesion equivalent to the weight of two tons could be produced at each axle, being capable also of acting or not at a moment’s notice. But there is always found to be sufficient adhesion, except sometimes in foggy weather, at first starting ; when once in motion, the train acts as a fly-wheel. We have no hesitation in saying, that electro-magnetism will at no distant day compete with steam as a motive power, and successfully.
We are yet, however, very ignorant not only of the powers but even of the nature of steam. No one can satisfactorily prove whether it is a mechanical division of water, or a chemical decomposition. The currents which take place in water whilst it is heating, and which are reversed when it cools, are not yet taken sufficient advantage of, and there are many other facts which require examination. It is well known, that if we put on our bare hand, an iron kettle of water boiling rapidly we feel no sensation of heat, but the moment the ebulition ceases, we feel a gradually increasing warmth, which is greatest at the edge of the bottom. When the bottom, well cleaned, is placed almost in contact with the bulb of a thermometer, it will only raise it 8° or 10° in thirty seconds, or about 40° in five or six minutes, although the water, at the expiration of that time, will be at 90° higher. With an earthenware pot, the difference is very great, the thermometer rising 100° in thirty seconds, instead of 8° or 10°. A drop of water placed in a metal vessel, at a white heat, is very slowly converted into steam, whilst at a lower temperature its conversion is so rapid, as almost to resemble an explosion. At the high temperature, it will spin round, and will take nearly a minute to evaporate, during which time, if it be turned into the hand, it will barely feel warm.
The experiments made by the committee of the Franklin Institute of Pennsylvannia, are well worth consulting on these subjects. It is there shown, that a drop of water on polished copper, at the temperature of 445°, took 210 seconds before it was converted into vapour. It was evaporated in the smallest time, at a temperature of 292°, at which it took three seconds. But when the copper, instead of being highly polished, was highly oxidated, the temperature of maximum evaporation was at 348°, and the time required to convert the drop into steam only one-fourth of a second, or as 12 to 1 ; whilst in iron the temperature suffered but little variation, whatever was the condition of the metal, except it was very highly oxidated, the iron having its highest evaporating points in this case about 35° above copper in the same condition. The time varied nearly in the ratio of the conducting power of the metals, or about 2½ to 1, the copper requiring the least.
At 20° to 40° above the point of maximum vaporisation there is a perfect repulsion between the drop of water and the heated metal, the former rotating in all directions, without wetting the metal. When larger quantities of water were used, the point of maximum vaporisation was much higher; which renders it evident that locomotive engines have yet to be considerably altered, before they can work at the greatest advantage. The same experiments shew, that water injected, either hot or cold, into an engine boiler, heated to bright redness, produced no hydrogen, but that the resulting gas was nothing more than atmospherical air, deprived by the heated metal of more or less of its oxygen ; that is to say, nitrogen more or less pure, according to the quantity of oxygen which has been absorbed.
The nature of the most advantageous alloys for the fusible plugs oflocomotive or other high-pressure boilers, has been carefully examined by the same committee, and the following table is deduced from their observations, tile stationary point being that of congelation.
The proportions are by weight throughout. The stationary points are not given for the ten latter alloys, but the decrease in temperature by which they became “hard solid,” on the surface we presume, was as follows, viz. 25°, 24°, 20½°,
22½0 , 30½o , 32½0 , 48½0 , 50½o , 49½o , 46°. The arrangement of the table is in the order in which the alloy begins to solidify. A correct knowledge of the nature and properties of steam is of such importance at the present day, that the matter ought to be taken up by government. Private individuals are not able to incur the expense necessary in conducting a complete course of the experiments which are required to fully develope such an intricate and voluminous subject.
The practice of putting two engines to a train is not considered so good as dividing the train into two, and putting one engine to each. Whatever may be the objections to the latter plan, those who argue in this way assert that no two engines will have their wheels mathematically accurate as to size, and if they had, still their rate of working, depending as it does on so many elements, would always prevent their velocity being precisely the same, except for a short time, by mere chance ; and when this is not the case, a most destructive rubbing immediately takes place. When two are working together, for instance, with driving wheels 5 feet 6 inches in diameter, the circumference will be 17∙2787 feet, and at a speed of 40 miles an hour, which is 211200 feet, or 3520 feet per minute, equal to 58∙66 feet per second, these wheels must revolve 12223 times in an hour, or 203- 71 times per minute, equal to 3∙395 times per second.
Now, if we only take half this velocity, or 20 miles an hour, or 105600 feet for the one engine, and 19 or 21 miles, or 100320 and 110880 feet respectively for the other, we
have at once a rubbing motion of no less than 5280 feet
per
hour, or one mile in twenty, with a rubbing instead ofa rolling motion. In fact, the rubbing will always be equivalent
to 
the difference between the velocities of the two engines,
and 
the loss of power, the wear and tear ; and the injury to the maèhinery by the extra steam which must be brought on all the working parts, if the above be true, may readily be imagined. A self-registering counter, fixed to ascertain the number of strokes, would easily settle this point ; to do which, it must trace the work of each engine on paper, similarly to the self-acting anemometer of Mr. Oslerof Birmingham. But for our own parts no proof is required. We are certain it is not the case, and that the speed of both engine3 becomes equalized almost immediately after they start ; that engine which would travel the fastest, doing the largest proportion of the work, and thus relieving the pistons of the other, by drawing her along at her own rate, as she would, in fact, if the steam were shut oft' altogether. A strong man and
a 
weak man working at a winch is an exactly similar case.
Before long there is no doubt that signals will be established along all considerable lines of railway. The use of them is sufficiently obvious, and they might be turned to profit also, by conveying messages of all kinds, at the rate of so much per word ; they would thus, instead of being a cost to the railway company, become a source of emolument. Communications throughoutalength of l00miles, when they can be made at one signal from each station, would be transmitted in about a minute and a quarter, and any ordinary message out of the usual course in about half an hour ; a telegraph would be prevented from working by the weather, about two months a-year in the aggregate.
There is nothing so easy as to make a telegraph book ; in fact, it is only numbering a dictionary, and the thing is done. In fact, hundreds of messages may be sent on the usual address of a newspaper, without the possibility of the post-office being at all aware of anything of the kind being carried on. In the case of a railway, each head of the different departments should send in lists of the various messages most likely to he wanted, and these could be added to, as time de-velopes what is required.
The original expense of such a thing would probably be about L.260 each station, and the annual expense about L.77 per station; to which would have to be added the salary of the superintendent, clerks, and a few supernumerary men. Their great use renders them most desirable things. For instance, an accident happens to an engine ten miles from an engine station. The telegraph would send out another engine in a minute, with any commonly good look-out ; whereas, to send on foot would require two hours, thus deranging the time of all the succeeding trains. As another instance, a train starting from one end to the other of the line, perhaps leaves 50 passengers at some intermediate town ; the telegraph might immediately make this known to the clerk of that station, who, if he had few passengers ready for the train, could prepare goods’ waggons to put on, so that the engine should not go with half a load ; a matter of great importance, for the power absorbed by an engine before it can put itself in motion, being one-third of its whole power, it follows that the relative expenditure of power per ton per mile, is nearly six times greater with a load of 10 tons than it would be with a load of 100 tons.
When accidents do happen upon railways, they may generally be expected to be extremely serious, and no means should be left unprovided, for immediate assistance being dispatched ; even an advice carriage, which might be worked at 20 miles an hour, would be but a slow method, compared with a telegraph, for instance, if medical assistance, or what is more likely, surgical assistance, was wanted. In many cases, it will be highly advantageous, particularly in a pecuniary point of view, to run trains at different velocities, passing each other bv means of sidings, the
expense oflocomotive transport increasing so much with an increased velocity. This desirable method will no doubt eventually be much practised. It would be almost impossible without a telegraph.
The effects of high wind upon a train, especially a sidewind, which binds the flanges of the wheels against the rails, and very much impedes the velocity, as well as increasing the wear and tear, renders it a desirable thing to have its force measured at all the principal stations, so that whenever it exceeds a certain standard, to be determined by experiment, a second engine may be sent out to assist the train. The most complete instrument for this purpose is the anemometer, invented by Mr. Osier of Birmingham, now used at the Philosophical institution of that town, at Plymouth, and in other places. This also combines so many other arrangements, as well as that for measuring the force of the wind, each of which it transfers by machinery to paper, that it is in fact the heavens registering themselves, and for a cost of about L.50 leaves nothing to desire.
For railway purposes merely, a more simple contrivance will be sufficient, although the cost will not be very materially decreased, if it be fitted up with the requisite attention to convenience as well as accuracy. For instance, if a vane with a long tail, high above the top of the engine-house,and having at its pointing end a board one foot square, be fitted up in the following manner, it will be sufficient for all the wantsof the locomotive department. The vane should be fixed on a hollow pole, which should turn with it and descend thluogh a tube down to about five feet of the floor of the engine-house, where there should be a horizontal dial-plate, on which should traverse a pointer fixed to the vane-pole. This pointer would always indicate the direction of the wind ; and in order to ascertain its force, the board, one foot square, on the pointing end of the vane, should act on a spiral spring, and work a drum by a wheel and pinion, communicating by a cord, with a similar drum at the bottom of the vane-pole, where a vertical dial-plate should be fixed, on the outside, and opposite to the lower drum, on which a hand traversing round the vertical dial-plate would shew the force of the wind.
According to the power of the engine, and the nature of the usual traffic, experience will soon point out when a second engine ought to be dispatched ; and a table being formed for each point of the compass for this, should then be invariably acted on at all times, unless other local circumstances occasioned any alterations in the general average of the loads.
To estimate the force of the wind, we have, by the experiments of Dr. Hutton, a plane surface of one square foot, at a velocity of 20 feet per second, suffering a resistance of 12 ounces ; and as it varies very nearly as the square of the velocity, we have in pounds, calling
f
any other force, and
V
the velocity,
/3 .
sjf
= 20 feet :
v
feet, s7 4 '
and as the number of feet per second, multiplied by ∙6818, produces the number of miles per hour, the above becomes, for miles,
: nj~f
=13- 636 :
v
miles.
or b i3 ? ; √∕=13∙636 :
ν
2
or ∙866 :
su∕
∕=13-636 :
v,
whence the velocity in miles per hour is
13-636
√7 or 15∙746√7= ∙,
•866
and we have also sufficiently near
f=~.
248
and for every useful purpose, the force may be had within 8 ¼jth of the above by using this simple tormula,
∕= ∙004e2 .
So much has been said about the inconvenience and danger of tunnels, that it is necessary, whilst there are yet so many railways to be called into existence, to state that there is positively no inconvenience whatever in them, except the change from day-light to lamp-light. This matter was clearly investigated and proved upon the London and Birmingham railway, a special inspection having been there made in the Primrose-hill tunnel by Dr. Paris and Dr. Watson, Messrs. Lawrence and Lucas, surgeons, and Mr. Phillips, lecturer on chemistry, who reported as follows :—
“ We, the undersigned, visited together, on the 20th of February 1837, the tunnel now in progress under Primrose-hill, with the view of ascertaining the probable effect of such tunnels upon the health and feelings of those who may traverse them. The tunnel is carried through clay, and is laid with brick-work. Its dimensions, as described to us, are as follows: height, 22 feet ; length, 3750 feet; width, 22 feet. It is ventilated by five shafts, from'6 to 8 feet in diameter, their depth being 35 to 55 feet.
“ The experiment was made under unfavourable circumstances; the western extremity being only partially open, the ventilation is less perfect than it will be when the work is completed ; the steam of the locomotive engine was also suffered to escape for twenty minutes, while the carriages were stationary, near the end of the tunnel ; even during our stay near the unfinished end of the tunnel, where the engine remained stationary, although the cloud caused by the steam was visible near the roof, the air for many feet above our heads remained clear, and apparently unaffected by steam or effluvia of any kind ; neither was there any damp or cold perceptible.
“ We found the atmosphere of the tunnel dry, and of an agreeable temperature, and free from smell ; the lamps of the carriages were lighted ; and in our transit inwards and back again to the mouth of the tunnel, the sensation experienced was precisely that of travelling in a coach by night between the walls of a narrow street ; the noise did not prevent easy conversation, nor appear to be much greater in the tunnel than in the open air.
“ Judging from this experiment, and knowing the ease and certainty with which thorough ventilation may be effected, we are decidedly of opinion' that the dangers incurred in passing through well-constructed tunnels are no greater than those incurred in ordinary travelling upon an open railway, or upon a turnpike road, and that the apprehensions which have been expressed, that such tunnels are likely to prove detrimental to the health, or inconvenient to the feelings of those who may go through them, are perfectly futile and groundless.”
The above will, of course, set the question at rest, especially as the Leeds and Selby tunnel, only 17 feet in height, and 700 feet in length, is found to produce no inconvenience ; and as any persons may now try the experiment themselves
Hence we obtain the results given in the following table ;
on longer tunnels than even that at Primrose-hill. We may 'instance the tunnel near Kilsby, on the London and Birmingham railway, which is 2425 yards long, and traversed without the slightest inconvenience or sensation of cold or damp ; the change experienced being merely that from sunshine to shade, and from daylight to lamplight, and this latter only in those seasons of the year when the days are considerably longer than the nights.
The quantity of friction in well-formed carriages we consider as certainly not more than 8 lbs. per ton ; but as about 9∙3 lbs., or z ¼0 th of the weight, will perhaps be a more ge
neral average, we here give a table for the total resistance arising from gravity and friction, calculated from the following formula.
g+f=λ ,i+ 4-0 ="+ ±,
where G is the effect of gravity, the weight being taken as unity, I the inclination of the plane, H its height, L its length, and F the friction, the numbers in the table being the values of the right-hand member of the equation.
For any lesser inclination, divide 1 by the length of the O
plane to a height of unity,' or find —, and add to the quo-
tient in either case ∙004l67.
To use tile table, look along the upper column for the hundreds, and down the left-hand column for the tens of the rate of inclination ; and at the point of intersection will be found a number which is to be multiplied by the total weight of the carriage and its load in lbs. for the total resistance. Thus for a carriage weighing 8000 lbs., at an inclination of 1 in 560, we have 8000. ∙0059524=52∙6l92.
Calling W the weight of the carriage, the friction alone W W
will vary from to —-, according to the care with which OOU JuU
it is constructed, and this may be divided into that arising from the wheels on the rails, or the rolling friction, which
. is a constant quantity, more or less, according to the W
strength, or the stiffness of the rails, =-—,the remainder 850
being due to the rubbing of axles on their bearings. A great deal depends upon the unguent used, both as it respects quantity and quality. A wheel loaded with from 1 to 4000 lbs., and turned on its axle on a half bearing by a weight and rope, which detached itself after falling 30 feet, leaving the wheel to revolve till its own friction brought it to rest, made 36 revolutions, when nearly deprived of oil, and 278 revolutions when the oil was heaped on that side of the bearing which the circumference of the axle approached as it turned round. The ratio of bearing surface of the axles has also a considerable effect. This should not exceed 90 lbs. per square inch, and the length of bearing should not be much less than twice the diameter of the axles. Under these circumstances, friction on railways will bc uniform at all velocities with well made carriages, and will be in the ratio of the weight.
The friction of engines, without any load, and exclusive of the tenders, will be in the average ratio of the diameter of the wheels, and nearly as their weight ; 8½ tons, with five-
feet wheels, being 15 lb. per ton ; with a load, 1 lb. per ton must be added.
The friction of edge-rails to that of plate rails, is as 17∙5 to 27∙8. The wear and tear of ropes on inclined planes is about ¼d. per ton per mile ; and their friction, either selfacting or with fixed engines, will vary from j'.s ∙ to ½ of the weight of rope wheel and sheaves in action
plus
the pressure of the rope on the wheel. This quotient will have to be divided by the difference in diameter between the sheave and its pin, and an allowance must be made for any curves in the line of direction.
The adhesion of engines may be taken as at least equal to j⅛th part of the weight on the driving wheels. This will enable them to draw in the following proportions for each ton of the weight under the most unfavourable circumstances, and may be much increased when the weather and all other circumstances are in the most advantageous state.
In the common steam engine, the power is as the area of the piston, and the pressure of the steam on it. But in the locomotive engines this is not the case ; for the power of raising steam in any quantity, which may always be had in a stationary engine by increasing either the size or the number of the boilers, has a limit in the locomotive, determined by the weight to which the engine must be restricted. The power in this case resides in the capability of the en-
gine to generate a given number of cylinders of steam in a certain time, and not in the diameter of the piston.
The evaporation is produced partly by radiant heat communicated to the water surrounding the fire-box, and partly from that which is transmitted by the hot air passing through the tubes, the effect of the former being to the latter as 3 to L At a velocity of l8∙88 miles per hour, M. Pambour found that 55∙82 cubic feet of water were evaporated per hour, with a heating surface exposed to radiation of 43∙ 1
2
square feet, and a surface exposed to the heated air of 288∙35 feet, equal together to 139∙24 square feet of radiating surface ; and calling
a
the former surface, and 
b
the latter, we shall have the evaporating power of different engines at the above velocity,
e=a
+ ~y> ar, d reducing the communicative to the equivalent radiant heat as above, we get 0∙4 cubic feet evaporated per hour for each square foot of radiating surface, of which, from blowing off, loss from the steam ports, and half an inch at each end of the cylinders, the effective steam is only 0∙3 cubic feet for each square foot of radiating surface. The piston must move about 300 feet per minute to work the blast properly, which generally requires 6 lb. per square inch, at 25 miles per hour, and at the highest velocities, will take one-third the power of the engine.
The coke consumed in the best kind of engines, will be about one-fourth ofa pound per ton per mile, gross load, and one-fourth of a gallon of water, provided the load is proportioned to the capability of the engine. A great deal also depends on the quality of the coke ; and as the power of an engine consists so much in the quantity of water it can evaporate, we subjoin a Table giving the load to the nearest ton and velocity on different inclinations, when sixty cubic fect of water per hour can be converted into steam, that being the capability of the best modern engines.
The expenses of railroads are not yet well understood, and are very variable. For instance, in America, the Boston and Worcestercosts L.157 per mile, and the Uticaand Shenectady, L.363 per mile ; whilst in England the Liverpool and Manchester costs L.1000. Again, the latter costs L.444 per mile, for maintenance of the way, whilst the Leicester and Swannington, a coal line, was let for four or five years, at L.70 per mile, and is now let for less, the company finding engines and ballast, at which price the contractor is supposed to have made L.500 a-year, besides interest upon the cost of his waggons. About 180,000 tons yearly pass on this line. The engines weigh from three to twelve tons, and the waggons thirty-eight cwt. carrying four
tons nett. The locomotive power is rather more than one-fourth of a penny per ton per mile.
The maintenance of the way upon the Grand Junction railway, for eighty-two mdes to Newton, has been let at L.244 per mile, including rails, chairs, bridges, and every thing. We have no doubt this is amply sufficient. They pay L.20,000 a-year to the Liverpool and Manchester company for the use of their line and offices. The Great Western railway, under unfavourable circumstances, has been let at L.4l6 per mile; and the repairs to the London and Southampton line are divided, the company finding all materials, and contracting for their labour only, for which they pay L.140 per mile, including the use of tools. But the best data to found any calculation on this varying expenditure, are those contained in the reports published by the Directors of the Liverpool and Manchester railway, for the five half yearsending the 30th of June 1834. We shall endeavour to set this calculation in its true light, which has not yet been done. The following are the various items of expenditure, exclusive of interest, with which we have nothing to do.
Liverpool and Manchester Railway expenditure for five half years ending June 1834, exclusive of interest:—
Locomotive power, including new engines.........L.67552
Maintenance of way, including new rails............ 38306
Coaching, including compensation for lost goods,
repairs, and office expenses........................ 32628
Carrying, including waggon repairs, carting, and
compensation.........................................    63279
Stationary engine expenses, including ropes, &c...    4728
Police disbursements................................. 5285
Engineering department.............................. 2084
Direction, office expenses, rent, taxes, bad debts,
and sundries.......................................... 23842
Total, exclusive of interest..............L.237,704
We have included the cost of new engines in the locomotive power expenditure, as otherwise we should have had to allow an uncertain amount for depreciation. For the same reason we have included tile cost of new rails in the disbursements for the maintenance of way ; whereas former computers have only included the cost of new blocks and sleepers. In the coaching and carrying departments are included the following items, which we shall afterwards use.
Coach repairs......................L.7957
Waggon repairs.................. 6436
Let us now see what duty has been performed for these several amounts of expenditure :—
944,113
passengers conveyed in
15,831
trips, or
59.63
per
trip
= 34½
miles on a level.
For power, Goods, nett, 440229 tons, viz. goods 345463
1 189533 + coals —-—
... G∞ds, gross, 676065 tons, viz. 440229 + waggons 188669 + empty do. at¼ = 47167.
For way, G∞ds, nett, 489614 tons, viz. 440229 +
7411+91358 di .
--= Bolton tonnage
... Goods, gross, 751914 tons, viz. 489614 + waggons 209840 + empty do 52460.
For power, Goods, trips, 11702 at 37- 63 tons per trip, Forway,    ...    13014    ...
The distinction shewn here between the power and the way arises from a small portion of the coals and the Bolton tonnage not being drawn by the company’s engines ; and hence these have to be omitted in any calculations on the cost of locomotive power, but are retained in the expenses
of keeping in repair the permanent way. The number of ' trips has also to be augmented by an average allowance for the above tonnage. For computing the expense of the way, we must likewise include the weight of the engines and tenders, say 15 tons each. We then have
Goods...........................751914
Engines 13014, at 15 tons... 195210
Total weight of goods’ trains    947124
Passengers, at 15 to a ton......62941
Luggage, at 28 lbs. each...... 11801
Trains, 15831- 16.3655...... 259082
333824
Engines, 15831 at 15 tons 237465
Total weight of passenger trains    571289
Total load passing on the way    1518413
In the above, we have allowed coach room for 64
passengers per trip, and have taken the weight of a first-class train at 21 tons, and a second class at 12∙6 tons ; the relative numbers of each being at the time we speak of, 13 to
,r 1    ,    . , c . . 21.13 + 12,6.16
10    ; hence the average welght of a tram is -f3⅛plθ--
= 16∙3655 tons, and more on longer lines from the luggage being heavier.
We have now to deduce the drawn and the passing weight over 1 mile upon a level, calling the Liverpool and Manchester railway equal to 34½ miles on a level, when due allowance is made for the gradients.
Drawn weight,
I
mile on a level.
Tons.
11 v∩9 » ∙ J Goods, nett.......... 440229∙34⅜= 15187900
'υ trips
j    grθss .........
676065∙34½=23324242
i
Passengers nett, in-
15831 trips √ cluding luggage, 74742∙34⅜= 2578599
I
Passengers, gross, 333824∙34½= 11516928 
Passing weight,
1
mile on a level.
Tons.
∏flia 1 ∙ J Goods, nett .......... 489614∙34⅜=16891183
jυ tn Ps I Goods, gross......... 947124∙34½=32675778
l<ζsιι l ■    ∫ Passengers, nett.... 74742∙34½= 2578599
ιoe,n trips -j PassengerS) gross .... 571289'34½=19709470
We now require the ratio of expenditure for passengers and goods, for locomotive power and maintenance of the way. This has generally been taken in proportion to the number of trips with each, which is clearly wrong. Both the weight and the velocity are evidently functions of the expenditure, taking the drawn weight in estimating the cost of the power and the passing weight for that of the way ; and as the cost of passengers and that of goods is not separated, which indeed could hardly bc done for the way, we have no guide, and can only make an approximation, by taking the cost directly as the weight and velocity. We have then
For locomotive power
23324242-15 : 11516928.25 or 319863630 :287923200, or as 1∙215 to 1.
This gives us in money,
Goods..........................L.370544
Passengers..................... 304974
ToUl.................. L.67552
A similar result drawn from the number of trips only, would give for the goods, L.28710, and the passengers L.38842, which is clearly inadmissible; unless we are prepared to say that the locomotive power is used in a most disadvantageous manner, of which we have no evidence. Hence, if we multiply the number of passengers by 0∙353585, or, which will be sufficiently accurate, by 0∙3536, it will give us the total weight drawn in trains, averaging as those did on the Liverpool and Manchester line at the time in question ; or, in other words, there are 2∙8282 passengers to a ton gross weight.
In order to apportion the expense of mainuining the way between the goods and passengers, we have,
For maintenance of the way,
3267577815: 19709470-25 or 490136670:492736750, or as 1 : 1∙005.
This gives us in money such a small difference from equal proportions, that we may safely venture to place halt the expense on each ; always premising, as we have before explained, that the workmanship in the waggon springs, wheels, and axles, is to be considered as of the best description, without which the expense may be almost anything.
The result deduced from the number of trips would have given us the goods’ expense to the passengers, nearly as 16 :22, an additional proof that this method is very erroneous. We are aware of the difficulties which envelope the whole question, especially in first working a railway, when the embankments settle down and render very expensive repairs necessary, without a single vehicle passing over the road, whilst the more it is used, the sooner it will get in perfect order. Nor are there any data to guide us correctly, as respects the effect of velocity ; but from an attentive consideration of the subject, combined with a comparison on many lines, we believe tile foregoing method to be that which agrees best with practical results, and with this we must rest satisfied till more experimental knowledge is acquired.
For the locomotive power, the cost of new engines and repairs must now be separated from that of the working expenditure in coke, oil, grease, waste, wages, &c. We shall find this to stand as follows :
Repairs, &c................................... L.42376
Working expenses.......................... 25176
Total........................ L.67552
This again will divide itself into,    " ■■
Repairs, &c., Passengers................... L.19L31
...... Goods....................... 23245
Total.........................
L.42376
Working expenses, Passengers...........L.l 1366
Goods................. 13810
Total.........................L.25176
In the same manner we may divide the expense of maintaining the permanent way into
Wages........................................L.l 9216
Materials.................................... 19090
ToUl........................ L.38306
Tliis comes so very near a half, that we may safely estimate it at that quantity, or at one-fourth of the total, as follows :—
Wages, Passengers........................L.9576.5
... Goods.............................. 9576.5
Total......................L.
19153
Materials, Passengers......................L.95764
... Goods.............................. 95764
ToUl.................... L.19153
Reducing the whole of the preceding items, we get, as in the following Table, the expenditure per ton per mile.
The police expenses are about L.75 per mile, including gatekeepers and switchmen ; and this would of course be doubled for a night and day line. The porterage of the goods at the termini, costs 8¼d. per ton, and has been for some time paid at that rate by contract.
As an example of the mode of estimating per ton, and per passenger per mile, the following accounts for the Stockton and Darlington railway will be useful. The traffic on this line consists of coals carried on an average 20 miles per trip, with 63 tons 12 cwt. nett. Goods averaging 12 miles, and passengers the same distance, are conveyed indiscriminately in the same train.
The following statement is for the half year ending the 31 st December 1834 :—
No. of trips with coals equivalent to 20
τ ∏ps∙
miles per trip....................................... 3682∙5
The expenses of locomotive power, including the repairs, working, fuel, wages, &c., and interest on capital... L.8310 14 9
Which gives per trip................. 2 5 l∙6l
This gives per ton per mile.........    0    0    0∙4258
In the above is is included
Waterstations................... L.l26    12    1
Agencies......................... 81    18    4
Miscellaneous.................... 294    8    4
Total............... L.502    18    9
No. of trips of 12 miles, with goods and passengers, 226l¼
No. of passengers conveyed one mile................. 398244
No. of passengers conveyed one trip of 12 miles... 33187
Expense per trip of 12 miles...............L.0    12    3∙35
Expense per passenger per trip........... O    O    10Ό4
Receiptsper trip of 12 miles............... O    18    0∙6l
Receiptsperpassengerpertrip........... O    O    1∙276
Total cost of locomotive power for the
half year......................................L.1388 12 10
Totalreceipts from passengers for ditto, 2041 7 4
The cost for goods and passengers is as follows :
Working the engines...........................L.l 207 5    1
Guards and clerks’    salaries..................... 187    2    10
Repairsofcoaches............................ 34    16    3
Miscellaneous................................... 337    12    2
Total....................L.1766    16    4
Brought over—Total......L.1766 16 4
Deduct proportion of expense for some coals drawn by
passenger engines........... L.79    1    6
Deduct for goods 7185 tons,
12 miles at 1 f ⅛ths of apenny
per ton per mile.............. 215 10 11
Expenses in the goods’ department..................... 83 11    1
- 378 3 6
Expense for passengers only.................. L.1388 12 10
as above.
Hence 7185 tons of goods cost per ton per mile.............................. L.0 O 0∙8337
Being L.215,1 Os. Ild.+L.83,11 s. 1 d. total cost on.................................. 299 2 O
The performance and cost in locomotive power for five of
Locomo-
the principal passengers’ and goods’ engines during the six
tive power,
months, is as follows :
Theperformance of eleven of the principal coal engines is as follows, the trips being equivalent to 20 miles each, with 63 tons, 12 cwt.
The estimated expenditure per trip of 20 miles with coals, when this railway company worked their own engines, was, for the years 1833-4:
Locomotive power, total,    L.2 2 7∙344
Interestofcapital, rent of shops, &c. O 3 1∙187
--L.2 5 8531
The same expense when the power was let to contractors in the years 1834-5,    .    .    2 2 4∙8
Water engines, agency, and superintendence,    .    .    Ol 5-25
- 2 3 10 05
Saving per trip of 20 miles, with 63 tons, 12 cwt. nett, in 24 waggons,    
ι    
L.0 1 10, 481
G
The cost of L.2, 2s. 4∙8d. to the contractor may be divided as follows :
Engine-man’s wages, .    L.0 6    1 ½
Fireman’s do. .    0 3 0
Engine bars, .    .    0 0 8
Coals, .    .    .    0 4 91
Oil, tallow, and white lead,    0 3 7¼
Hemp and spun yarn, .    0 0 4
L.0 18 6∙5
Interestofcapital,    .    0 1 11∙386
Rent of shops, .    .    0    1    1∙801
Repairsandprofit,    .    1 O 9- ll3
Per trip of 20 miles, L.2 2 4∙8
Or, per mile :
Wagesandconsumablearticlesj L-O O 11∙125 Interest and rent of shops,    O O 1∙85935
Repairs and profit, .    O 1 0∙45569
L.0 2 1∙44
The following is the amount of repairs for two years, 1835 and 1836, to seven engines on the Stanhope and Tyne Railway :
The work performed by these engines in the two years, was as follows :
Tons, 1 mile. Tons, 1 mile.
Gross load.    Nett load.
Two years, .    10322616    4825309
Perannum, .    5l6l308    2412654
Per engine, per annum,    737330    344665
The comparative cost of the different modes of transit is, under all circumstances, strongly in favour of railways. For instance, in waggons travelling 2½ miles an hour, the cost of each ton, per mile, for goods, is about 7¾d., of which nearly 3d. is the cost of horsing. In vans travelling at 4 miles an hour with lighter goods, the expense is nearly Is. per ton, per mile, the horsing costing rather above 4d. of this sum. The expenses of four-horse stage coaches, vary from L.4 to L.5 per lunar month, per double mile, according as their rate of travelling varies from 8 to 10 miles an hour ; their hire and repairs cost 2½d. per double mile ; the duty is 3d. per double mile ; and the horsing is 2s. The coachman and guard are seldom paid except by the passengers, say 10s. 6d. per week for them at the outside; and for tolls and incidental charges 6d. per mile; being a large allowance. The tolls on the Holyhead road, one of the best in England, are not quite 4d. per mile, for
a four-horse coach. This gives Is. 9d. expenses per single mile, while the returns will be 2s. 6d. per mile. From this calculation we have excluded the charge for parcels, &c., leaving it to go, with the allowance for incidentals, to the support of the office establishments. The coaches which ran between Birmingham and London, prior to the opening of the railway, charged L.2, 10s. inside, and L.l, 10s. outside, the distance being 108 miles, and after the opening, L.l, 10s. inside, and 17s. out. Our computation of coach profits we know is under the mark. The cost of this mode of travelling is about 3d. per passenger per mile, or 3s. per ton, taking 12 passengers and their luggage to a ton. In canal carriage, the cost varies from 3d. to 5d. per ton per mile, in the fly boats going at the rate of 4 miles an hour ; and by slow boats, from l¼d. to 2d. per ton per mile, at the rate of 2½ miles an hour. The passenger boats, going 10 miles an hour, charge from Id. to l¼d. per passenger, per
mile, or from Is. to Is. 3d. per ton of passengers, per mile.
The cost of carriage by railways worked with horses, is from l½d. to 2d. per ton, per mile, for heavy, and 3d. to 3½d. for light goods, and from Id. to l½d. per passenger, per mile, or from Is. to Is. 6d. per ton of passengers, per mile. Those worked by locomotives charge about the same for goods, and rather more for passengers, or from l½d. to 2½d. per mile on an average. These latter charges however are too high. The resistance by the several modes of transit, is for railways, 8lbs. per ton ; canals, 2¾lbs. per ton, at 2½ miles velocity, 7 lbs. at 4 miles, 40 lbs. at 9 miles, and 60 lbs. at
11 miles, which is the greatest hitherto attained. Turnpike roads’ waggons, 76lbs. ; vans, 71 lbs. at the before mentioned velocities ; and coaches, 80 to 88 lbs. at from 8 to 10 miles an hour.
In whatever light we view the question, no other mode of transit can be put in competition with railroads, except
the very slow carriage of heavy goods on canals. But this is not a fair comparison, as speed must be taken into account as well as price; and we have no hesitation in saying that upon well managed and economically-conducted railroads, goods of every kind can be carried, with proper precautions, quite as cheap as by any canal, and with three times the speed at least. A great deal remains yet to be done in this department of locomotive transit, and the question cannot be decided on any railway with certainty, till it has been some time in operation, and the mode of working and maintaining it, and of economising the locomotive power expenses, are reduced to a well regulated system.
Many doubts were entertained, at an early period of the railway system, as to the performance of engines when snow lay on the rails to a depth which on the common roads interrupted the ordinary communications of the country ; they have however completely triumphed over this difficulty ; a striking proof of which took place on the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway; where the possibility of working the engines, under the above unfavourable circumstances, was put to the test on December 20,1836, in the deep cutting through the Cowran hills, where the snow had accumulated to the depth of four or five feet, when the Hercules engine came down on the morning of the above day. Numbers of the country people assembled to see how it would act in such an emergency, and to render any assistance which might be necessary. On arriving at the spot, however, the engine dashed right into the drift, clearing its way through, apparently without any difficulty ; the snow at the same time flying over the top of the engine chimney, like foam from the broken waves of a violent sea; and notwithstanding this and other similar obstructions, the train came down from Greenhead, twenty miles, in one hour and a quarter, and their times of arrival were properly kept up, whilst all the communications by the ordinary roads were more or less seriously obstructed, if not entirely cut off.
Hence any of the so often proposed plans for sweeping or scraping the rails will rarely be found necessary, much less the plan seriously proposed and patented so late as 1831, of making the rails hollow and filling them with hot water in winter. In the extreme case of rain succeeded by frost, thus forming a coat of ice upon the rails, it will generally be found sufficient to place a waggon, or any other empty light vehicle in front of the engine, which will break up the ice sufficiently to allow of the necessary adhesion. The effect of severe frosts on the road itself will be found of infinitely more consequence, and is an additional reason why drainage should be scrupulously attended to in countries where much cold is experienced. The manner in which frosts acts on common roads, is sufficient evidence of what may be expected on a railroad, if the water is not most carefully carried off from the ballasting.
In America, for instance, where railways were first laid down on blocks, similar to the way they are constructed in England, it was found that their severe winters completely disorganised them ; splitting the blocks, throwing the rails out of guage, and even twisting them so as to render them unfit for the passage of the engines, and obliging the trains to travel at a reduced speed. From these causes, and as it was found necessary to relay the road after each winter, blocks have in a great measure been abandoned, longitudinal and cross sleepers being generally substituted, and laid on broken stones filled into trenches ; but the evil is yet only partially remedied. It may, however, in all cases, be set down as a general rule, that where timber can be obtained cheap, it should be used in preference to blocks.
The difference, however, is necessarily so great between Iherailroadsin that country and this, as very much to preclude comparison. Some of theirs are constructed of plate rails 2½ inches wide, by half an inch thick, and weighing from IOto 17lbs. per yard; their curves and inclinations are
such, from the nature of the country, as to render cross ties more frequently required than they are in English railroads. Continuous stone bearings have also been tried in America ; also piles at three feet distance, as supports to the rails, which are spiked down to them without the intervention of any chairs.
Several of their railroads are carried across valleys by means of wooden trestles, well braced together, and assisted by piles; the lower ends of which in soft ground are often left square instead of being pointed, as a means of affording additional stability. These sort of roads are in several cases carried over valleys of such a depth, as to occasion no small surprise to those only acquainted with the substantial embankments of England and most other parts of Europe. It must be confessed, however, that the Americans, in the expense of their railways, beat the old country hollow ; and there are many things which we should be glad to see copied from them ; we may instance their guards in the front of the engine to remove obstacles from the road, and their long and high carriages.
Some of their lines are worked by horses at the rate of 15 miles per hour ; and on the locomotive lines, where the curves are bad, the driving wheels are placed next the fire box, and the front part of the engine is supported on a four-wheeled truck, to which it is attached by a vertical pivot, while the weight rests on friction rollers ; this management admits of a motion by which the wheels areinagreatmeasure assisted in their passage round the curves, which in some cases have not more than 300 feet radius, whilst in others they have gradients of 1 in 110, and inclined planes rising 1 in 10.
Another striking departure from the method of constructing these w'orks commonly adopted in England, has been introduced by Mr. J. K. Brunel on the Great Western Railway, with a view to an increase in speed, and also to obtain a more solid road, on embankments particularly. Instead ofresting the supports of the rails, that is to say, the stone or wood bearings, whether longitudinal or transverse, on the ballasting, where the repairs to the railroad consist in continually packing more ballast under the bearings, as they subside through the weights passing over them, or from the various other causes which affect them, Mr. Brunel has fixed his bearings at certain points, so that they cannot rise up nor go down, whereas in the usual modeof construction, it has only been attempted to prevent them from going down.
The guage of the Great Western Railway is 7 feet 2½ inches from centre to centre of the rails, and the width between the two lines is 6 feet. The mode of construction is as follows. (See Plate CCCCXX.) At every 15 feet in length along the railway, beech piles are driven into the ground, at 15 feet distance apart, transversely ; they are driven from 8 to 10 feet in cuttings, and in embankments, they are in general sufficiently long to go about the same depth into the original ground on which the embankment stands. These piles are formed to the proper length, and driven in, without any being cut off their heads, which are nearly level with the top of the ballasting, and when this cannot be effected, they are drawn and redriven. They do not stand in the middle of each line of rails, as will be seen by referring to the above measures and the plate, but are nearer each outside rail of the two lines.
Tothesepilesdoubleand single transverse ties, or sleepers, sometimes called transoms, are attached as follows : A square shoulder is cut, 1½ inches into the pile, on one side for the single ties, and on both sides for the double ones ; the single ties are 6 inches broad, and 9 inches deep ; the double ties are 6 inches broad, and 7 inches deep. They are made of American pine, and when let into the shoulders of the piles, they are securely bolted to them ; the double ties are 13 inches, and the single ones 9 inches below the line of rails. On these are laid longitudinal timbers, 15 inches broad, and
Ί
inches thick ; these are also of American pine, and are 'bolted to the cross ties with screw bolts and washers, the heads of which are countersunk into the longitudinal timbers.
The entire transverse section is horizontal where the railway is straight, and inclined according to the radius in curves; and when the whole is bolted together, it forms what is in fact a road at fifteen-feet bearings. The line is then ballasted, and the longitudinal bearings are packed in the usual manner with fine sand or gravel, till they are raised in the middle from ahalftoone-third of an inch; Rleyarethenplaned to a uniform surface, and a plank ofelm, oak, or ash, 1 ½ inches thick, and 8 inches broad, is laid on them, with a copious intervening bed of tar, and nailed down ; the heads of the nails being punched in, to allow the plank to be planed ; the upper surface of the plank slopes inwards 1 in 20.
The rails are screwed down to the plank and longitudinal bearer,after the former has beenplaned; withfeltunderneath them. The whole of the timber is kyanized, and the joints, butts, bolts, washers, keys, spikes, and nails, also the whole of the longitudinal bearers, are tarred. In fixing the rails, square· headed screws are used outside the rails, and countersunk ones inside, to be clear of the flange of the wheels ; the outside screw is first completely tightened and then the inner one, a roller weighing about 10 tons being previously drawn several times along the rail, and followed up closely by the screwing.
The principle on which the railway is intended to be constructed chiefly consists in the piles being a constant retaining power, holding the road down against the packing, which would otherwise force it up ; so that this latter can be driven much harder in than by the ordinary mode. Mr. Brunel is said to calculate that he throws an upward pressure against the base of each longitundinal timber, equal to one ton per foot forward, or about one ton per square foot. He thus obtains 3 tons for every 3 feet length of rail, while a Stoneblock containing 4cubicfeet, only weighsaboutaquarter of a ton, which is therefore the pressure with each 3 feet of rail laid in the usual way ; neglecting the impact with which the stone block is forced into its seat by the cuddy and lever, a very uncertain quantity, but which perhaps never amounts to, on the whole, less than as 3 : 2 in favour of the longitudinal bearings. The timber used in a mile of this railway, is about 420 loads of pine, and 40 loads of hard-wood ; these require 6 tons of iron bolts, and 30,000 wood screws. The rails are about 44 lbs. per yard, and the cost of the first portion, laid from London to Maidenhead, including laying, ballasting, sidings, draining, and all other work, is stated at L∙9200 per mile.
Such is the mode of construction on this railroad, which has so much agitated the minds, not only of the shareholders, but of the whole railway public. This, however, ought not to have been the case, for the matter lies in a very small compass, and a short experiment should have determined it ; it is merely a question of expense. The first outlay must, of course, be great, and it is only necessary to know whether the future saving will be commensurate with it. A desire for a greater width of guage seems now gradually gainingground among those best entitled to judge on the subject, and the public will not long rest satisfied with a velocity of twenty miles an hour. Whether Mr. Brunel has taken the right measures to compass these desirable objects, will require much more room to discuss than we have here ; but this we know, that the Great Western, for the twenty-three miles now open to the public, is by far the smoothest and easiest line we have ever travelled on.
The relative ratio between the motion of the wheels and that of the piston will be much more advantageous at a given velocity as the wheels are large, within certain limits ; the greater degree of stability acquired, from the increased width of guage is also desirable, if not carried too far ; but we must confess we should ourselves be afraid of jumping from 4 feet 8½ inches, to 7 feet, without more experience. Another company jumped from 2 feet 9 inches to 5 feet in then-length of bearing, and the result was sufficiently inauspicious.
The effect of the diameter of the wheels on the velocity of the piston, may be thus computed :
Let e= the velocity of the wheels,    
"1
p=
the velocity of the piston,    > in feet,
Z= twice the length of the stroke, j m= the number of miles per hour the engine travels.
We then have
ι>t∕>=3∙14159.dt⅝ or,
pd.
3-14159, &c.
—vl,
and e=88za feet per minute ;
, 88 .
m . l
_28-01127.Z.m
- d
This for all ordinary purposes may be taken at 28mZ
P=-d-'
with a stroke of 18 inches, orZ=3 feet, if we take <Z=9 feet, and compute for the different values of
m,
the values of/?, we may derive from them any other values of∕>, for all diameters of wheels by simple proportion. For the quantity 
p
when tZ=9, our formula becomes
p—m .
9∙33709,
and the table will Sfand as follows :
By means of the column 9∕> we have the value of
p
for any other diameter of wheel, by simply dividing the number in that column for the required value of
m
by the given diameter of the wheel ; thus,forinstance, with a 5-feet wheel,
at 20 miles an hour, we have ----= 336∙1352 feet,
O
per minute, for the velocity of the piston. At 60 miles an
,    ∙ , ,    ,    ,    ■    5042-0286 ,λλo 4
hour, with the same wheel, we have ---= 1008∙4
5
feet per minute. In the same way, if we have any other length of double stroke than 3 feet, we have only to take the value
ofp
from the table for the given number of miles per hour, multiply it by 3, and divide it by the length of double stroke in feet, or calling
l'
the new double length of stroke, and
p,
the required velocity of the piston in feet per minute,
F'=⅛
y l'
Coming now to look at the Great Western Railway in its more general bearings, we may examine the late reports on its construction, which, published as they are by the directors, have the sanction at least of authority to give them
weight. We are sorry, however, to say, that they possess none ; they have left the main question as undecided as ever, and present little else but irrelevant matter, or that which contradicts itself. Our inquiry will naturally embrace, first, the reports themselves, and, secondly, the experiments on which they rest.
The first is Mr. Hawkshaw⅛, and this is so completely set at rest in the reply of Mr. Brunel, that no one would require any discussion respecting it. Mr-Hawkshaw states that at the risk of being tedious, he has endeavoured to develope the process by which he has arrived at his “ opinions,” because he thinks it better that his report should “ partake more of the nature of demonstration, than of mere assertion ;” and he then informs us that the Great Western Railway, “ has been applauded to the skies as wonderful ; it has been derided and run down as little less than nonsensical. Now it is neither one nor the other of these.” He has not furnished any “ demonstration” of this fact, and is much less fortunate in another assertion, namely, that on coming first on the Great Western line of railway, that which immediately strikes the attention is the “ enlarged capacity of all things.” We have travelled on that line now four times, but are not aware, from our own observation, that all the things which were on it possessed a larger “ capacity” than those which we have met on other railways.
i Coming next to the report of Mr. Wood, we find it stated that nearly all the experiments upon which it rests for its foundation, were made both by and under the superintendence of other persons, and the mere dressing them up, a purely arithmetical operation, has alone been performed by Mr. Wood. To those who are at all acquainted with that gentleman’s knowledge of formulæ and figures, this would be quite a sufficient intimation of what might be expected ; but, in addition to this, hardly any of the experiments are given in the report, and no formulæ ; and thus the only essential things, from which a right conclusion can be drawn, have been withheld from the shareholders. In the meantime the farce has been played out, and the curtain has fallen.
We shall not stop to notice such mistakes as, that one ton and a half is to one ton and a quarter as four to three ; but proceed to the tabular matter in the report, selected from all the records which have been taken of the various experiments, we presume, as that which was most worthy of being laid before the directors and the public, as a fair statement of the capabilities of the Great Western Railway as compared with others; and itshouldbe remembered that Mr. Wood sets out by laying down a rule that, unless his inquiries were conducted in such a way, as to “ elicit by incontrovertible and practical experiments, the relative capabilities of the two systems of forming and constructing railways,” it would “ not only be a waste of time, but would be attended with perhaps still worse consequences.”
The advantages which have been aimed at in the extension of the guage, from 4 feet 8 inches, to 7 feet, and in Mr. Brunel’s other alterations, are principally as follows. A greater speed ; a decrease of friction, by enlarging the diameter of the wheels ; greater stability, by keeping down the centre of gravity, through the body of the carriages being inside the wheels, and not over them, as in other railways. The main objections made to his system, are the increased cost of forming the railway ; the greater weight and size of the engines and carriages ; the additional friction on curves ; the extra cost of construction both in carriages and engines, and the impossibility of a junction with other railways. It is to strike a balance between these that Mr. Wood has produced what he states as “ correct and indisputable results.”
On the question of speed, Mr. Wood decides that the less powerful engines on the ordinary railways go within three miles an hour of the most powerful ones on the Great Western, and he presumes from this, that the more powerful ones would exceed the best of the Great Western engines ; the effective power yielded by the former being apparently much greater than that which is obtained from the latter. This very extraordinary statement is attributed to the resistance of the air, which Mr. Wood seems to think a new discovery in railway matters,although Newton, Robins, Sroeaton, Hutton, Dalton, Pambour, and others, have given it in print from nearly two hundred years ago up to the present day, and practical men have all along considered its effects on railways, whilst theorists alone have stated it to be of no consequence. It is twelve months since anemometers were planned, and estimates obtained for their erection at the stations along the London and Birmingham railway, by the writer of this article, at the desire of Mr. Bury, who has contracted for the locomotive power on that line. With respect to the speed of the Great Western engines, in consequence of those improvements to be expected in all mere mechanical contrivances, and which the usual engines have been ten years benefittingby, whilst thqse on the Great Western line are yet insufficiently tried, Mr. Brunel states, that since Mr. Wood’s experiments, he has so improved the very engine with which the highest velocity was then attained on those trials, that, all other things being the same, her performance was, and is as follows :—
Load ;    Average    Coke per ton
tons.    speed.    per mile.
Mr. Wood, Sept. 1838, 15 9    38½    2-76
Mr. Brunel, Dec. 1838, 40∙0    40    0∙90
The decrease of friction in large wheels is admitted as well as other conveniences, although it is stated these can be arrived at with a less guage than 7 feet, and 6 inches is given as the maximum increase on the old width requisite for improving the engines. The weight per passenger appears to be the same with the Great Western and the ordinaryrailway carriages, although Mr-Wood states they have l.j tons on each wheel, while the ordinary ones have only 1¼. That there is a greater stability and steadiness of motion in the carriages, Mr. Wood denies.
We have now to examine the tables given in this report, containing the incontrovertible experiments which are presented as affording a foundation for the opinions delivered, and it will be quite sufficient for every purpose of testing their value, if we take those on the deflection of the rails and supports on the Great Western and other railways. These experiments, it appears, w-ere made almost exclusively on the short space of about two miles in the clay cuttings near Paddington, undoubtedly the worst part of the road.
Mr. Wood states that stone blocks afford decidedly the firmest and most unyielding base, and that between longitudinal bearings, the usual sleepers, and the Great Western plan, not much difference of deflection exists. The w-eight of the engines not being given, we must chiefly confine our observations to the quantity of deflection produced by the coaches, the weight of which, on one wheel, is as 6 to 5 on the Great Western, compared with other railways.
Engines.    Coaches·
Vertical.    Lateral.    Vertical.    Lateial.
Great AVesternin a    per-
∣
    .J3113     .02 453    -10517    ∙02473
Do. with the piles    cut.    Ό979    ∙01047    ∙06923    ∙00843
Do. Wdththetransomscut.    -07743    -00513    -0768    -00353
The above are means of three deflections taken at a single transom, a double one, and mid-way between them. Comparing now the effect of coaches on this and other railways, we have as follows :—
Vertical
deflection.
London and Birmingham, 60 lb. parallel rail,
3- 75 feet bearings on blocks.....................-0261
Do.    do. 50 lb. fish belly, at
3 feet bearings on blocks........................-03277
Vertical
deflection.
Liverpool and Manchester 62 lb., parallel, 3 feet
on blocks.............................................Ό3853
Manchester and Bolton, on longitudinal bearings................................................... ∙05703
Grand Junction 65 lb., parallels, on blocks,
4
feet bearings......................................... ∙0301
„    the    chair under the rail............. ∙0149
„    the    block under the chair.......... ∙O7l4
„    65 lb. parallels on sleepers.........∙10293
„    the    chair under the rail............. ∙07l7
„    the    sleeper under the chair........∙0511
Engine.    Coaches.
Grand junction, lateral deflection
Ί
∙O1615    ∙01
on blocks,...................rail J    °
Do.    do,............chair    ∙0200    Ol 35
Do.    do,............block    Ό053    ∙0007
Do. on sleepers...............rail ∙0188    ∙012
Do.    do,.............chair    ∙0ll2    ∙077
Do.    do,.............sleeper    ∙0125    ∙008
Do. on longitudinal timbers..rails ∙02985    ∙022J
Do.    do,..............chair    ∙0387    ∙0265
From the tables in the report whence we have formed the above means, we find that a 60 lb. parallel rail at 45 inches bearing, deflects only ∙0261, while a 62 lb. parallel at 36 inches bearings, deflects ∙03853, and a fish-belly at 36 inches bearing, and 50 lbs. in weight, only deflects ∙03277.
In the 50 lb. rail upon blocks, at the joint chair, there is moredeflection than in the middle of the rail, and about three times as much as at a single chair with the weight of a coach ; whereas, in the 60 lb. rail, the deflection is more at the single chair than at the joint, but, in this case also, it is least in the middle of the rail with a coach. In the 62 lb. rail it is also greater at the single than the joint chair, and
less in the middle of the rail than at the single chair.
In the Manchester and Bolton experiments, the rail deflects more than the timbers at the transoms and joints, but in the middle, the timber deflects more than the rail. With the 65 lb. rails, either on sleepers or blocks, the deflection is considerably more, either with an engine or a coach, at the chairs than mid-way between them ; and whilst the rail only deflects ∙0301, and the chairwhich supports it less than half this, namely, 0149; the block which supports the chair deflects five times as much as the chair itself, namely, ∙07l4. These are called incontrovertible experiments.
In addition to this, Mr. Babbage, no mean authority, who has seen the original records of the experiments, which the report made to the directors does not contain, states in his speech at the meeting of Great Western proprietors, held on the 9th Januaryl839, that with respect to the increased power required through the resistance of the air, that instead of 15 per cent, being necessary to gain an increase of speed of 3 per cent., it turned out that from the use of the same formula, and the same experiment whence Mr. Wood had deduced the above results, that the increased power required was only as 2 to 1, instead of 5 to 1, as stated bv Mr. Wood.
It is astonishing to see what mistaken ideas many persons have entertained amongst the proprietors of this railway. One stated thatalthoughthe resistanceof the air might have been known, yet, it was never taken into consideration at such speed as had now been attained in railway travelling. Wllat, then, becomes of the experiments of Robins and Hutton, which upset the ancient parabolic theory of projectiles, and established the present practical system of gunnery ; the deduction of these writers were carried up to velocities considerably greater than that in which air can rush into a vacuum, that circumstance forming one great guide jn establishing their results.
Another person wished to know, when such a very great
advance had been made by Mr. Brunel in so short a time, by .which, with fully one-third less fuel the load drawn by the North Star engine, was increased from 16 tons to 40, at an increase in velocity also ; why the same could not be done with all other engines upon narrower railways, and thus an equal effect produced with a much less costly mode of construction. The simple answer to which is, that on the railways with the original guage, the engines have been made gradually more and more perfect up to their present state ; whereas on the Great Western, this has yet to be done. Mr. Brunel, in the above improvement on the North Star, has not made any new discovery in the organization of a locomotive ; he has has only brought its mode of operation nearer to that which is in action on other lines of railway.
Other persons have said, that granting Mr. Brunel does obtain the speed and power he has anticipated, his engines will then do too much, that passengers will never be fouud to assemble in sufficient numbers to fill such heavy trains, and that consequently all the extra cost of the new system will in the end be thrown away. This argument is no more tenable than the others, and throughout the whole inquiry there appears a lamentable want of nearly every requisite for coming to a right conclusion; even the instruments used in the experiments are inadequate for that which they were intended to shew ; of those used to ascertain the motion of the carriages, Mr. Babbage states, that having tried three similar ones of different lengths merely, he could make each of them tell different stories, and whichever he pleased give the greatest result; also that when he tried the very same instrument used in the experiments of Mr. Wood, instead of finding any thing like corresponding measures of the oscillations, his so grossly exceeded those which formed the basis of the report, that they were beyond all magnitude ; and after travelling 120 miles in those trials, he came to the conviction that every thing in the shape of an experiment connected with that instrument, must be thrown overboard.
No inquiry, in fact, could have ended more unsatisfactorily than have these experiments on the Great Western railway; and their records, which should, above all things, together with any formulæ used, have accompanied the report, w-ere not published with it. This is the most unfortunate error
of 
all ; for as they were chiefly made by other persons, and not by Mr. Wood, they require to be examined, first, as to their correctness as experiments, and secondly, as to how they have been dressed up to produce to the proprietors. In the first case, there might be some little difficulty, but in the second, every proprietor could have judged for himself, and he ought to have had the means put in his hands to do so. Strange to say, too, Mr. Wood has quarrelled with his own report, and declares he made the North Starengine do just the same as Mr. Brunel has done. Why then did he not publish this himself, instead of giving a very different experiment, after placing which in his own report, he blames the
directors for sending it forth to the public ?
The whole of the proceedings in this discussion serve to shew, as we have before stated, that it is high time some government measure was brought forward to regulate, at least, the general principles of railways ; many persons are afraid of this interference with what is justly considered private rights, but to these we would say, that on several of the leading lines in England, a far worse oligarchy now exists than can be called into operation by any measure of government, thoroughly gifted as it would be in parliament by the numerous members of both houses who are interest
ed
so many ways in the right management of these important concerns.
The result of the Great Western discussion is as follows : The unanimous abandonment of the piles ; the substitution of a larger scantling of timber and a heavier rail ; and the retention of the wide guage and continuous bearings. As far as the railway public are concerned, they will be but
little affected by this. The rails are much too light and want 'depth, and their shape should be the subject of properly conducted experiments. The guage being retained, all the necessary information relative to its efficiency and economy, will, no doubt, in time be made known. The question of longitudinal or transverse bearings is of much less import than is generally imagined. The part of the line on piles between London and Maidenhead, twenty-three miles, if it be retained and kept in good order, will soon set at rest the question of expense in maintaining the way. Thus, then, so far as the public are concerned, all is well ; but the effect of this decision on the interests of the proprietors has received no light whatever ; there is nothing even to shew that in adopting a heavier rail, there is the slightest necessity also to adopt a greater scantling of timber ; and it is extraordinary that a point so easily submitted to experiment and calculation, should have been entirely passed by in the final report to the proprietors.
We have hitherto looked principally to the construction of a railway ; there is, however, an equally important point to be considered, and that is, the working of it after it has been constructed. On this will mainly hinge the degree of profit which may be expected ; for, let all our previous instructions be duly considered and properly followed out, with such deviations only as may be rendered necessary by local circumstances ; or let a railway be constructed in the best and most advantageous manner, yet it will soon be discovered that, if it is not worked on a sound and effective system, it will turn out a vastly different speculation to what it would be under proper management.
For this purpose every thing should centre in one committee of directors ; these may with advantage subdivide themselves into smaller bodies, for particular purposes ; all business transacted by these subdivisions being merely preparatory, and nothing being finally concluded till brought before the general body. There should be no boards of direction at each end of a line, but that terminus which is best situated to effectually overlook the whole of the various business, should be made choice of for the seat of government. There should be ample inspection into every department, but it should be inspection only ; all orders should come from one committee, and through one general head. It may often happen, and always with advantage, that both ends of a railway may be opened before the middle is finished ; still every thing should centre at the governing end of the line, at one point ; and the mode by which this government should be carried on, must now be considered a little more at large.
The first question which arises is, by what system can a joint stock company be so managed as to obtain the same amount of alacrity, vigilance, and industry in its service, as characterises the conduct of individuals when acting for themselves, and to combine with these qualities an honest and economical administration. The system of management by boards of directors has stood the test of considerable experience, and, where the proper men are found for directors, this system is admiraoly adapted to answer the Jlrimary object of a board, viz. to deliberate and decide on principles. More information and greater variety of view is brought to bear upon a subject when it is discussed by several men, than almost any individual intellect could furnish ; and, as joint-stock companies consist of persons in almost all classes of society, a board composed, as it should be, of individuals holding a large amount of stock, and giving their services gratuitously, for that reason, as well as from a sense of public duty, by embodying various interests, claims and secures the confidence of all.
It is well known, however, that a body consisting of many individuals is utterly unfitted for executive functions. It is admitted as a principle, that executive administration is best and most efficiently exercised by one and one only, and,
accordingly, every board, whether of government commissioners, or of joint-stock companies, or of charitable institutions, has some one to whom is entrusted the executive superintendence, and control of that, whatever it be, on which the board exercises its legislative and judicial functions. Connected with this executive are other officers, many or few, exercising a separate jurisdiction over their several departments, and in all details independent, yet held together, for the purposes of combination, by the executive officer.
In the management of railways, such an officer is more especially required where the heads of departments are necessarily numerous, in consequence of the several branches of business into which the working of a railway is divided ; where each department employs a considerable number of men, two alone, those of the police and porters, amounting almost to a regiment, and where all are to be brought to act with the precision and regularity of a steam engine. It would be impossible to produce unity of action amidst such conflicting elements, without a close, active, and unremitting personal superintendence, such as may be accomplished by an individual, but can never be effected by a board.
Several attempts at a different system of management have been made by railway companies, but they have not been found to answer. A favourite project has been much talked of lately, viz. that a committee of three should be chosen from the body of the directors, in which triumvirate should reside all administrative and executive functions, and so much of the deliberative and judicial as relates to the ordinary affairs of the company, and that each triumvir should receive a salary sufficient to command his whole time for the company’s service, the chairman receiving a higher remuneration than his colleagues. The advocates of this plan contend, that it would first secure unity of action in the principles of management, with prompt execution in the details, a ready redress of grievances, and remedy, or rather prevention of abuses. Secondly, that it would give the personal responsibility of a few to the proprietors, in place of the collective responsibility of many ; and, thirdly, that it would keep in check the undue power and influence which, under a different system, the executive officers would be likely to acquire.
This view appears more plausible than sound, more specious than solid. In the first place, the triumvirate would monopolize the whole power of the company, and the board would go to sleep. The board of which the triumvirate form a part, would meet too seldom and know too little, to be
a 
match for three men, who would act together every day and know every thing, and who, above all, would enter into debate with the larger body, and vote as directors upon questions affecting their own conduct. It has always proved a thoroughly vicious system to have an executive officer a member (as in many boards he is) of that body, whose orders he is to execute, and to whom he ought to be responsible ; and this applies to the triumvirate.
In the second place, the responsibility of each triumvir would merge in the collective responsibility of the whole board, and men would be exercising a power for which, practically, they could not be called to an account ; for, when the board had confirmed an act of the triumvirate, what chance would the proprietors have to make them accountable ? The results of irresjlonsible authority, it is well known, are jobbing and every sort of peculation.
In the third place, it is not likely that three men chosen out of a body of directors, would be the men best fitted for the situations contemplated. Not only is the number out of which they would be chosen too few to present sufficient of the peculiar ability required, but the selection of the individuals would be rather determined by personal predilections than by their fitness. It would be an appointment to
be canvassed for, and the men who would take the most ' pains to get it, would be just those least suitable for it.
It will be readily seen, also, that under such a triumvirate no really good officer could act. The perpetual meddling with matters they know little about, the jealousy of their authority, and the necessity to be busy in order to give a colour to the notion that they do work, which would inevitably belong to such a body, would disgust an officer who knew his duty and wished to do it, and they would be left to perform the business w, ith none but subordinates. So far, then, from attaining the advantage contended for, a triumvirate committee of management constituted on the above plan, would tend to greater evils than those sought to be remedied by it. The old Navy board, abolished by Sir James Graham, is a case in point : this board was an executive one, and yet subordinate to the admiralty, and the natural consequence followed ;; they were continually working against the orders they received from the superior board, in order to carry out their own plans, not openly, but covertly ; there was, in fact, a constant under current of opposition, from which the business of the country notoriously suffered.
If, indeed, the proprietors of any railway would agree to invest the whole power of management in three commissioners, chosen from the country at large, as the fittest men to be found, making them responsible to the proprietors assembled in general meeting, and assimilating this triumvirate as nearly as possible to a government board, more favourable results might be anticipated than from any other plan ; but how should any company get three paid commissioners, who are not proprietors, to look sufficiently closely to the economy, out of which a good dividend should arise ?
The conclusion, then, is, that the present system of direction is, on the whole, the most suitable for managing a concern, whose nature is commercial, and the end of which is the realising of a profit to the proprietors, upon a money investment. A very important principle, however, is too much lost sight of in the composition of boards of directors. The practice is, for the same persons to be selected year after year, till all sense of responsibility to the constituent body is lost, and the board becomes an oligarchy, of a spirit akin to the old self-elected municipal corporations, the members losing year by year their interest and sympathy in the views and feelings of their constituents, and yet prone to consider them as identical with their own.
For this the appropriate remedy is, periodically a new infusion into the direction from the body of the proprietors, and for which parliament has in most cases provided, by requiring a certain portion of directors to retire every year. If the proprietors give common attention at their general meetings, and are careful to select for directors the fittest men, not allowing the re-election of retiring directors to take place, as a matter of course, they will find their interests as well secured under the system recommended, as they are likely to be under any other, namely, one general board and an efficient executive officer. We should always recommend one thing, which is, that the half-yearly reports should be printed and sent to the proprietors, at least a fortnight before the general meeting.
If we look back at the rapid progress which we have made in the science of locomotion during the last half-dozen years, and at the degree of comfort and accommodation which, in conjunction with rapidity of transport, have been afforded to the public, at in most cases so very moderate a cost, the strides by which we have attained our present advanced position, are certainly sufficiently gigantic ; but if we look forward, it requires but little of the gift of divination to perceive, that in a very few' years more, a still greater change will take place, more particularly in the essential article of comfort. In conducting a mode of transit so essentially new, and in which all our previous machines and appliances had to be completely reorganized, and numerous inventions of almost every kind were to be produced at a moment’s call, to meet the various difficulties and wants which were continually arising out of such a novel mode of conducting the business of travelling in what may be called the wholesale w, ay, it has been singularly fortunate, that in almost every instance, the various railway companies have kept on the safe side, that is to say, they have not done too much. They have erred on the best side they could commit an error on ; they have been too cautious. It seems as if it required a certain time merely to travel at twenty miles an hour, and let the mind sober down a little before much else could be attempted. This feeling may now be rapidly expected to give way, and we shall find that as confidence is acquired, all the requisite arrangements will become consolidated in much more perfect and improved forms.
There is nothing now which ought to be more attended 1 to by railway companies, than keeping their fares down ; and this has in most instances been very much neglected. When parties Jlossess such a complete monojκ>ly as a railway, they should be particularly careful not to shew it. The expenses in many instances are certainly very great, and the companies have much to suffer in their progress through Parliament, and the rough grinding they have generally received from the rapaciousness of landowmers. Accidents, too, must happen, estimates will be exceeded, and these sources of expenditure must be met by a corresponding rate of price ; but when the railways are made, the feeling seems to he too general amongst some of these proprietors, that this is the moment for making reprisals ujκm the public for all losses, vexations, mishaps and mistakes.
In some cases railways have charged more for the carriage of passengers than the stages or mails did, trusting to beat them on the question of time only. In part the receipts are great ; a certain sum must be set aside for a good dividend, and the rest is to be spent somehow or other. The same thing is observable in the statistics of the road trusts, many of them largely in debt, yet Sjiending their money on fancied improvements, instead of getting out of debt, and then lowering the tolls.
The effect of this on travelling is fully shewn in the report of the Irish Railway Commission. For instance, the travellers from Brussels to Antwerji by railway in the year 1836 were 872,893, whereas those on the Liverjiool and Manchester Railway for the same year were only 522,991, being the largest number for any year since the opening. Now, the populationofBrussels, Antwerp, and Mechlin was 209,200, whilst RlatofLiverpool, Manchester, and Warrington was 486,812, considerably more than double, or the ratio of population was as 2∙327 to 1, whilst that of the travelling was only as ∙599 to 1. We must seek for the solution of this problem in the respective fares of the two companies. In the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, Mr. Pambour states, that there are 13 first-class trains to 16 second-class ; and as the last class hold most passengers, suppose we omit the
.,    ,    13×5∙5s.+ l6 ×4s.    135∙5 ,l c ,o , ...
mails, and say---=-^—=4∙6724 shil
lings, the average fare. We have no means Ofascertaining the numbers on the Brussels railway, but if we take the dearest and cheapest, and compare them in the same ratio
π.k    .ι    uni. 3∙50× 13+1∙20×16
as we did the others, we shall have --
*-y
= -θ^Jθ
-=2 francs 23 cents per passenger on the average,
or about 1∙784 shillings, or 4s. 8d. in the one case, and Is. 9¼d. in the other, or, allowing for the value of money in the two countries, about double the price ; and this double
price is accompanied with only one-fourth of the travelling, the ratio of population to that of travelling being very nearly 4 to 1. A still stronger case is that of the Paisley canal, where the fly-boat fare is Id. per mile. Here, with a population of262,725, the passengers in 1835 were 373,290, whilst in the same year, with a population of 486,812, the Liverpool and Manchester railway had only 473,849 passengers. The railway company from Paris to St. Germain’s has tried the experiment of low prices with complete success ; their greatest reduction of fares was at the station of Nanterre, where they were lowered from 7½d. to 5d., and the result was, that twelve days, ending the 4th December 1838, at the low fares, compared with twelve days ending November 22, at the high ones, shewed an increase of 839 passengers ; and although the diminution in price was 34 per cent., the increase in the amount received was 16½ per cent. We therefore strongly recommend that fares should be moderate, or it will form the best plea in the world for the establishment of competing lines ; and it should be remembered that railways will to a certain extent drive vans and waggons off the road, which were the ordinary vehicles for the travelling poor, and they ought to have a substitute, if it were merely an open box without seats. Soldiers are generally conveyed at Id. each per mile, and their baggage at 3d. per ton per mile ; this is less than half what is charged on some railways in second-class carriages.
The general system of working a line, which we have here Maid down, is that which is adapted for a first-rate railway. On secondary lines it will perhaps be necessary to place several of the departments under one person’s superintendence, instead of having a head to each ; but
as this would be merely on the score of lessening expenditure, it should not bc resorted to without there is a rigid necessity for it. On short lines this necessity will exist. When this is the case, one person might take the coaching department, goods’ department, and the police, porters, and guards ; the disbursement clerk might be dispensed with ; one engineer might take the locomotive department, the construction and repairing department, and also the maintenance of the way, having good foremen in each case. But it is so much better to have a responsible head in every department, that we should always recommend that course to be adopted whenever it is practicable, that is to say, whenever the income of the company will allow it. It may, however, well deserve consideration, in every railway establishment, whether, at each of the stations of every kind, it would not save a considerable expense to have the porters, or a part of them, sworn in as police, so that they might on occasion act in either capacity. Attention to the number of entrance and exit gates, in planning out the stations, will also conduce to economy, as each of these will in general require an attendant policeman. There are numerous other means by which, in the middling and smaller class of railways, a moderate expenditure as well as a good arrangement, may be combined ; but so much depends on the localities, together with the nature and extent of the traffic, that nothing definitive can be pointed out, except from a careful consideration of these ; and the best step which the directors of all railways can take previous to forming any system whatever, is to consult a properly qualified and experienced person, both as to general principles and as to details.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.
Plate CCCCXX. fig. 1, is a plan of a sliding rail and eccentric for a crossing or siding place. The eccentric being attached by rods to the sliding rails (which move on a joint at the opposite end) draws them to either line, as required.
Fig. 2 is a longitudinal, and fig. 3 a transverse section of the same.
Fig. 4 shews a plan and section of a fixed point.
Fig. 5 shews the general arrangement of the whole of the preceding figures, to form a complete crossing.
Fig. 6 is a plan, fig. 7 a longitudinal, and fig. 8 a transverse section of the mode of laying the blocks, sleepers, and rails in an excavation, together with the ballasting, and an approved method of drainage. The blocks are shewn as laid diagonally in the manner they have been on the London and Birmingham Railway. The drains are of brick.
Plate CCCCXXI. fig· 1, is a mail carriage, as at present used, with its imperial.
Fig· 2 a side, and fig. 3 an end view of a first-class carriage.
Plate CCCCXXΠ. fig. 1, shews a close second-class carriage, with brakes which are worked by the handle at the top of the right hand end.
Fig. 2 is a plan of the buffer and drawing apparatus for the first and second-class carriages, and the mails.
Fig. 3 is a third-class carriage, and fig. 4 a plan of the drawing apparatus. In these carriages there are no buffer springs, but merely blocks at each end of the body. On some railways, the second-class carriages shewn here are not used, but the third-class, with the addition of a roof, is called the second-class. When this is the case, the ends are generally closed, but the sides are left open.
Fig. 5 shews a different form of buffing apparatus used on the Dublin and Kingston Railway ; the buffer rod goes the whole length of the carriage, having a similar head and spring at the other end.
Plate CCCCXXIIL figs. I and 2, are an end and side view of an approved earth waggon ; and figs. 3 and 4 shew another which has been very generally adopted. The brakes are shewn in both.
Plate CCCCXXIV. fig. 1, is a ground plan of the London and Birmingham Railway engine-house at Birmingham, shewing also the mode of laying on the water ;
a, a, a
are the main water pipes ; 
⅛. b, b
air vessels placed over the main pipes, to prevent the ram of the water when the cleansing and forcing cocks are shut suddenly, which, with a considerable head of water, would endanger the breaking the pipes ; c, c, c cleansing and forcing cocks ; these have strong hoses attached to them, by means of which an engine standing over the cleansing pits
d, d, d,
may be worked, and the boiler cleansed, and also filled when the steam is up, the usual force of water on the jet being 78 lbs. 10 oz. to the square inch;
e, e, e
lines of rails from the central turnplate to each engine pit.
Fig. 2 is a sectional view of the guard pipes through which the water mains are taken, when they cross the lines of rails as seen in fig. 1, in order to prevent damage to the road from leakage or accident. They also admit new pipes being laid down without disturbing the rails ; a is the iron guard pipe ;
b
the water main ; c manhole for an entrance to the guard pipe ; under this, at the lower part of the man hole, is a drain to the nearest culvert.
Fig. 3 is a general plan of a siding on each side of the main lines, and also of α crossing from one line to the other. See also Plate CCCCXX. figs. 1 to 5.
Fig. 4 shews the rope as attached to the working wheels in the fixed engine-house at Camden Town, on the London and Birmingham Railway, by which the trains are drawn up from Euston Square. To obviate the effects of the atmosphere on the rope, a tightening wheel, travelling on a railway, as shewn in fig. 5, is used, from which a heavy weight is attached by a chain, and bangs in a well ; by this means there is always an equal tension on the rope. The running sheeves on inclined planes should be very well fitted, and nearly all noise will be prevented by covering their working edges with netting.
Plate CCCCXXV. fig. 1, is a vertical section of a water crane ;
α
the lever for opening the upper valve inside the tank ;
b
the tank ; 
c
a compartment to be filled and warmed by the exhaust steam from the pumping engine, so as to warm the water before it is filled into tbe locomotives; the escape steam from the safety valve also is blown into the compartment c ,∙
d, d
the ends of the boilers ; e the supply pipe, fitted with a Stufling gland at the top at
f,
where it enters tbe tank to allow for expansion ;
g
the continuation of the supply pipe, which goes to the crane on the opposite line of rails ; the blank flange has a cock at Λ, by which the pipes can be emptied and cleaned, also to prevent the water freezing; i tbe crane turning in a gland at A, and a collar at
l; m
the brace of the crane; n the gib of the crane ; o hose of the supply valve for filling the engines ;
p
a leather hose to conduct the water. When the fall of water is high, these cranes must be very firmly fixed, or else instead of a supply valve on the gib, they must be fitted with a sluice cock fixed in the horizontal portion of the pipe ; s, s the line of rails. When not in use, the cranes are turned round flat against the wall
t,
to which they are fixed.
Fig. 2 is an end view of the part
h.
Fig. 3, plan of an invalid carriage ; α,
a
the seats ;
b, b
doors leading into the passage
d; c, c
apartments containing portable water-closets ;
c
do. containing a urinal ;
d, d
passage from each body to the water-closets;
e
door to urinal; /and
g
doors to the water-closets.
Fig. 4, plan of a smoking carriage, having seats (c), in the direβ>
tion of its length, and a place (σ), fitted with shelves for the attendant to keep cigar boxes, soda water, &c.
Fig. 5 is an elevation of a mile mark ; the numbers are either painted on glass, or cut out from sheet iron ; the box at the top contains
a
lamp, which will shew the miles by night.
Plate CCCCXX VI. fig. 1, elevation and section of a water apparatus for washing the carriages, as constructed on the London and Birmingham Railway ;
d
air vessels to prevent the ram when the cocks are shut suddenly ; α,
a
saddle cocks fitted with hollow plugs, one of which is shewn detached at
g ; c, c
hollow space to be filled with charcoal, as a security against the water being frozen ;
b
the connection with the feed pipe by means of a union joint ;
e
the feed pipe; /, /holding down pins.
Fig. 2, elevation of the west end of the great Blisworth cutting on the London and Birmingham Railway, shewing the method of undersetting the rock.
Fig. 3 is a section of the side walls at the same place ; the left hand side shews a section of the wall in the recesses, and the right hand side shews the same through a buttress, together with the invert and drains.
Fig. 4 is an elevation of fig. 3.
Fig. 5 shews the method of drawing bridges to answer both for cuttings and embankments. The left hand side is for a Cuttingand 
a
bridge over the railway ; the right hand side is for an embankment and a bridge under the railway.
Fig. 6 is a plan of the fixed engine-house at Camden Town, on the London and Birmingham Railway, where the trains are drawn up from Euston Square. There are four lines of rails for a double railway ; between these are the stairs leading down to tbe engine-room, on each side of which are the boiler rooms, with receptacles for fuel, &c. The working wheels for the endless rope are in the engine-room, and the well and tightening sheeve behind it. The mode 
of
working these is shewn on a Iargerscale in Plate CCCCXXIV· figs. 4 and 5.
Plate CCCCXXVII. fig. 1, plan of a station; s, road to tbe booking offices ;
d,
building, containing booking offices, waiting rooms, and the offices requisite for the general railway business ; on the opposite side of this building, on the road
s,
is the departure platform, and line of rails which goto the left; c, the first-class carriage house ; ∕, the second-class carriage house ;
gt
the stables for the goods’ station ; Λ, the goods’ waggon house ;
c,
the gullet for embarking horses and private carriages ; i, the engine house ;
p,
coke store, with tank over it;
m,
store-house for the engine department ; A, repairing house and engine manufactory ;
n,
lathe room ;
t,
road next the arrival stage to the town for the passengers inwards ;
b,
offices for goods and general store department ; 7, 7, goods’ arrival and departure sheds, with roads,
t
and s, to and from the town ; α, the point from which the engine tows in the goods’ arrival trains with a rope ; r, workshops, lodging houses, &c.
Fig. 4, another plan of a principal station in which turnplates are required ; the same letters refer to the same things.
Fig. 2, an elevation, and fig. 3 a plan of the fittings to a booking office ; α,
a,
the counter ;
b,
the clerks for booking second-class passengers ; c, the clerks for booking first-class passengers. The first-class passengers enter by the right hand door c', and having received their tickets, pass through
c
to the door cw , which leads to the first-class working room and the platform. The second class passengers enter by the left hand door
b',
and in like manner pass through
bμ 
and
b"r
, which leads to the second-class waiting room and platform.
Plate CC CCXXVII I.
Turnplates in plan and section, with details.
Fig. 1, the plan; fig. 2, the section ; fig. 3, elevation of the frame ; fig. 4, catches ; these should have long handles to lift them by; fig. 5, elevation of roller and turnplate on it ; fig. 6, the roller ; fig. 7, section of the roller ; fig. 8, provision to lock the plate when required, by inserting a bolt through the plate and frame.
Plate CCCCXXIX.
a,
the steam whistle which is made use of to warn workmen on the road, and persons on the stations, when the engine is approaching;
b,
an elevated dome, ιιpwhit, h the steam pipe rises to nearly the top, to prevent the motion of the engine throwing water out of the boiler. This dome, when taken off, forms the manhole ; c, working safety valve, the lever of winch is attached to a spring weighing-machine ; </, lock-up safety valve, which is screwed down to the required pressure by a series of springs ; c, chimney ; this generally has a wire gauze at the top to prevent the escape of sparks, and sometimes a damper to regulate the force of the blast-pipe;
f
smoke box, in which are the cylinders, the end of one of which is seen at7, with the cock Λ, which is to let Outcondenscd water or priming from the cylinder. There is a large door in the front of the engine, opening into the smoke-box, to allow of repairs being made to the cylinders, tubes, &c. inside ;
t. », »,
three guage cocks, to ascertain the height of the water in the boiler ; A, water guage, shewing in a glass tube the height of the water in the boiler. This guage communicates by a cock at the top with tbe steam, and by one at the bottom with die water. It also has a second cock at the bot
tom, for the purpose of emptying it when necessary ; Z, steam regulator, by turning which, the steam is shut off, or let into the cylinders ;
m,
   railing round the place where the engine-man and fireman stand ;
n,    fire box, containing the furnace, round which a thickness of about three inches of water circulates from the boiler ; the top is also full of water to the height of that in the boiler ; 0, supply pipe connected with the tender, from which water is pumped in at pleasure by means of the pumps
p,
which are worked by arms fixed on the piston rods, and running in guides ; 7, the handle which turns the pet cock; this is used by the engine-man to ascertain when his pumps are in proper order, in which case it throws out water, but when they are deranged it gives out steam ; there is one on each side of the engine ; r, cock by which the boiler is emptied, and tbe engine blown off. Plates also take off at the bottom of the boiler, and open into the mud-holes, which are also used to clean the engine internally ; 
s, s,
strengthening rods to the frame-work of the engine ; f, <, stays from the framing to the boiler;
m,
draw-bar to which the tender is attached ;
v,
door to the furnace ; there is a similar one to the lower part of the fire-box, which is formed into the ash pit, and is open to the front for the purpose of increasing the draft ;
w,
the frame-work of the engine. Some makers place this with its breadth horizontal instead of vertical, and Mr. Bury of Liverpool has his bearings inside the wheels instead of outside ;
x, xt
the axle guards which play up and down in grooves in the sides of the axle-boxes ;
y,
hook for attaching carriages to the foremost end of the engine ; there is a similar one on the other side ;
z,
the buffer.
The lower part of the boiler has a number of brass tubes running along its whole length, through which the flame and hot air rush in their passage to the chimney, up which the steam, after it has performed its office in the cylinders, is thrown through an iron pipe called the blast pipe. This is one of the most essential of all the improvements of the locomotive. Tbe boiler is cased with wood, to preserve the heat as much as possible ; its tubes last about two years, and cost about L.l each.
The steam pipe, by which the steam is conveyed to the cylinders, is divided into two after it enters the smoke-box, and one goes to each cylinder ; these are all made of copper, and the entrance and exit of the steam into the cylinder is regulated by slide valves worked by eccentrics on the cranked axle, which move levers fixed to the weigh bars. The pistons are formed of metal rings in several divisions, so placed as to break joint. The piston rod is fixed with a joint to the connecting rod ; and this last gives motion to the cranked axle, having its end next the piston rod fixed to the cross heads, each end of which work in guide blocks, thus causing a parallel motion in the piston rod.
The cranks are placed at right angles to each other, to enable the engine to get over her centres ; one piston thus works at the greatest advantage, when tbe other is at the least. By the eccentrics on the crank axle, and a series of levers, the slide valves are continually worked backwards and forwards with the engine, and this motion can be reversed instantly, so as to cause the engine to
go
in the opposite direction when required ; this is done by means of the long handle near the fire box, which moves against an arc having three notches in it ; when the handle is placed in the upper or lower notch, the engine goes either forward or backward, and when in the middle, tbe slide valves no longer work. There are many modes by which this is arrived at by different makers, nnd there is generally two starting handles, by pulling which the slides can be worked by hand ; these are constantly in motion while the engine is going.
Proper cups containing oil are placed over each of the working parts, so as to ensure a steady and constant supply of oil to every moving portion of the engine. These cups have a tube inside them, which leads through to the part which is intended to be supplied with oil. and a cotton wick is put through the tube, one end of which hangs over the top into the oil cup, «and thus acts as a syphon. The axle boxes are filled with grease, and have a cover on the top to ensure a proper lubrication of the axles.
Inside bearings are often used to strengthen the engine, and ensure its correct action ; they also steady the cranked axle against the horizontal force of the piston rods. The whistle is formed by a pipe through which the steam is allowed to pass at pleasure, by turning a cock; it then rushes against the thin edge of the upper domed part, which is hollow like a bell, and gives out a clear sound when the cock is properly turned, which may be heard at a very great distance.
The buffers consist of leather cushions stuffed with horse hair, and their use is to break the shock arising from any concussion which the engine may receive. Each of the wheels has a cover, called a splasher, I
∣
laced over them, to prevent their throwing the dirt from the rails into the machinery. Sometimes two pair of wheels are coupled together ; this gives more adhesion, and is generally done to goods’ engines only, which also have usually their wheels of less diameter than those used 
for
passenger trains, velocity being not so much an object as power of draught. JVIr. Stephenson does not now make his engines with any flanges on the middle pair of wheels.    
(b. h.)
RAIN, the descent of water from the atmosphere in the form of drops of considerable size. By this circumstance it is distinguished from dew and from fog. In the former the drops are so small that they are quite invisible ; in the latter, although their size be larger, they seem to have very little more specific gravity than the atmosphere itself, and may therefore be reckoned hollow spherules rather than drops. This subject will be found fully discussed in the articles on Meteobology, Physical Geography, and Weather.
Preternatural Rsitts.
We have numerous accounts, in the historians of our own as well as other countries, of preternatural rains ; such as the raining of stones, of dust, of blood, nay, even of living animals, as young frogs, and the like. We cannot doubt the truth of what authors of veracity and credit relate to us of this sort, nor can we suppose that the falling of stones and dust never happened ; the whole mistake consists in supposing them to have fallen from the clouds. But as to the blood and frogs, it is very certain that they never fell at all, and the opinion to the contrary has been produced by a mere deception of sight. Men are extremely fond of the marvellous in their relations ; but the judicious reader must examine strictly whatever is reported of this kind, and not suffer himself to be deceived.
There are two natural methods by which quantities of stones and of dust may fall in certain places, without their having been generated in the clouds or descended as rain. The one is by means of hurricanes ; the wind which we frequently see tearing off the tiles of houses, and carrying them to considerable distances, being equally capable of raising a quantity of stones, and dropping them again at some distant place. But the other, which is much the most powerful, and probably the most usual way, is by the eruptions of volcanoes and burning mountains tossing up, as they frequently do, a vast quantity of stones, ashes, and cinders, to an immense height in the air ; and these, being hurried away by the hurricanes and impetuous winds which usually accompany such eruptions, and being in themselves much lighter than common stones, from being half calcined, may thus be easily carried to vast distances, and there falling in places where the inhabitants know nothing of the occasion, cannot but be supposed by the vulgar to fall on them from the clouds. It is well known, that, in the great eruptions of Ætna and Vesuvius, showers of ashes, dust, and small cinders, have been seen to obscure the air, overspread the surface of the sea for a great way, and cover the decks of ships ; and this at such a distance, that it might appear scarcely conceivable they should have been carried so far : and probably, if the accounts of all the showers of these substances mentioned by authors were collected, they w ould all be ascertained to have fallen within such distances of volcanoes, whilst, if compared as to the time of their falling, they would be found to correspond in that also with the eruptions of those mountains. We have known instances of the ashes from Vesuvius having been carried thirty, nay, forty leagues ; and peculiar accidents may have carried them still farther. It is not to be supposed that these showers of stones and dust fall continuously in the manner of showers of rain, or that the fragments or pieces are as frequent as drops of water. It is sufficient that a number of stones, or a quantity of dust, fall at once on a place, where the inhabitants can have no knowledge of the point whence they came, and the vulgar will not doubt their dropping from the clouds. Nay, in the canton of Berne, in Switzerland, the inhabitants accounted it a miracle that it rained earth and sulphur upon them at a time when a small volcano terrified them ; and even whilst the wind was so boisterous, and hurricanes so frequent, that they saw almost every moment the dust, sand, and little stones torn up from the surface of the earth in whirlwinds, and carried to a considerable height in the air, they never considered that both the sulphur thrown up by the volcano, and the dust, sand, and stones carried from their feet, must soon afterwards fall somewhere. It is very certain that in some of the terrible storms of hail, where the hailstones have been several inches in circumference, there have been found, on breaking them, what people called
stones in their middle;
but these observers need only to wait the dissolving of one of these hailstones, to see the stone in its centre also disunite, it being formed merely of the particles of loose earthy matter, which the water, exhaled by the sun’s heat, had taken up with it in extremely small molecules, and this serving to give an opaque hue to the inner part of the congelation, to which the freezing of the water alone gave the apparent hardness of stone.
The raining of
bh>od
has ever been accounted a more terrible sight and a more fatal omen than the other preternatural rains already mentioned. It is very certain that nature forms blood nowhere but in the vessels of animals, and therefore showers of it from the clouds are by no means to be credited. Those who suppose that what people took for blood has actually been seen falling through the air, have had recourse for its origin to flying insects, and suppose it to be the eggs or dung of certain butterflies discharged as they were high up in the air. But this seems to be a very wild conjecture, as we know of no butterfly the excrements or eggs of which are of such a colour, or its abode so high in the air, or its flocks so numerous, as to be tile occasion of such a phenomenon.
It is most probable that these bloody waters were never seen falling ; but that people, seeing the standing waters blood-coloured, were assured, from their not knowing how it should else happen, that it had rained blood into them. A very’ memorable instance of this took place at the Hague in the year 1670. Swammerdam, who relates it, tells us, that one morning the whole town was in an uproar on finding, as they thought, their lakes and ditches full of blood ; for these having certainly been full of water the night before, they agreed that it must have rained blood during the night. But a certain physician went down to one of the canals, and taking home a quantity of this blood-coloured water, he examined it by the microscope, and found that the water was water still, and had not at all changed its colour ; but that it was full of prodigious swarms of small red animals, all alive, and very nimble in their motions, the colour and prodigious number of which gave a reddish tinge to the whole body of the water in which they lived. The certainty that this was the case, did not however persuade the Hollanders to part with the miracle. They prudently concluded, that the sudden appearance of such a number of animals was as great a prodigy as the raining of blood would have been ; and remain assured to this day, that this portent foretold the scene of war and destruction that Louis XIV. afterwards brought into that country, which had previously enjoyed forty years of uninterrupted peace.
The animals which thus colour the water of lakes and ponds are the
pulices arborescentes
of Swammerdam, or the water-fleas with branched horns. These creatures are of a reddish-yellow or flame colour. They live about the sides of ditches, under weeds, and amongst the mud ; and are therefore the less visible, except at a certain time, which is in the beginning or end of June. It is at this time that these little animals leave their recesses to float loose about the water, and meet for the propagation of their species; and by this means they become visible in the colour which they give the water. The colour in question is visible, more or less, in one part or other of almost all standing waters at this season ; and it is always at the same season that the bloody waters have alarmed the ignorant.
The raining of
frogs
is a thing not less wonderful in the accounts of authors who love the marvellous than those of blood or stones ; and this is supposed to happen so frequently, that there are multitudes who pretend to have been eye
witnesses of it. These rains of frogs always happen after very dry seasons, and are much more frequent in the hotter than in the cold countries. In Italy they are very frequent ; and it is not uncommon to see the streets of Rome swarming with young frogs and toads in an instant after a shower of rain. Nay, they have been seen to fall through the air down upon the pavements. This seems to be a strong circumstance in favour of their being rained down from the clouds ; but, when strictly examined, it comes to nothing. For these frogs which are seen to fall are always found dead, lamed, or bruised by the fall, and never hop about like the rest ; and they are never seen to fall, except close under the walls of houses, from the roofs and gutters of which they have accidentally slipped down. Some people who love to add to things strange others yet stranger, affirm that young frogs have fallen into their hats in the midst of an open field ; but this is equally idl e and false.
Others, who cannot agree with the opinion of their falling from the clouds, have tried to solve the difficulty of their sudden appearance, by supposing them hatched out of the egg, or spawn, by these rains. Nay, some have supposed them to be made immediately out of the dust. But there are unanswerable arguments against all these suppositions. Equivocal generation, or the spontaneous production of animals out of dust, is now wholly exploded. The fall from the clouds would destroy and kill these tender and soft-bodied animals. And they cannot be at this time hatched immediately out of eggs, because the young frog does not make its appearance from the egg in form, but has its hinder legs enveloped in a skin, and is what w, e call a
tadpole ;
and the young frogs are at least a hundred times larger at the time of their appearance than the egg from which they should be hatched.
It is beyond a doubt that the frogs which make their appearance at this time were hatched and in being long before. But the dry seasons had injured them, and kept them sluggishly in holes or coverts ; and all the rain does is enlivening them, giving them new spirits, and calling them forth to seek new' habitations, and enjoy the element they were destined in a great measure to live in. Theophrastus, the greatest of all the naturalists of antiquity, has affirmed the same thing. We find that the error of supposing these creatures to fall from the clouds was as old as the time of that author ; and also that the truth in regard to their appearance was as early known ; though, in the ages that followed, authors have taken care to conceal the truth, and to hand down to us the error. We find this vencrable sage, in a fragment of his on the generation of animals which appear on a sudden, ridiculing the opinion, and asserting that they were hatched and living long before. The world, however, owes to the accurate Signor Redi the great proof of this truth, which Theophrastus has only affirmed. This gentleman, dissecting some of these frogs, found in their stomachs herbs and other half-digested food ; and, openly showing this to his credulous countrymen, asked them whether they thought that nature, which engendered, according to their opinion, these animals in the clouds, had also been so Jlrovident as to provide grass there for their food and nourishment?
To the raining of frogs we ought to add the raining of
grasshoppers
and
locusts,
which have sometimes appeared in prodigious numbers, and devoured the fruits of the earth. There has not been the least pretence for supposing that these animals descended from the clouds, though they appeared on a sudden in prodigious numbers. The naturalist, who knows the many accidents attending the eggs of these and other like animals, cannot but know that some seasons will prove particularly favourable to the hatching them ; and the Jlrodigious number of eggs that many insects lay could not but every year bring us such abundance of the young, were they not liable to many accidents, and had not provident nature taken care, as in many plants, to continue the species by a very numerous stock of seeds, of which perhaps not one in five hundred need take root in order to continue an equal number of plants. It is thus also in regard to insects ; and hence it cannot but happen, that if a favourable season encourage the hatching of all those eggs, a very small number of which alone is necessary to continue the species, we must in such seasons have a proportional abundance of them. More than half a century ago, there appeared in London such a prodigious swarm of the little beetle called the
lady-cow,
that the very posts in the streets were everywhere covered with them. But, thanks to the progress of philosophy amongst us, we had nobody to assert that it rained cow-ladies, but we contented ourselves with saying that it had been a favourable season for their eggs. The prodigious number of a sort of grub, which, about the same period, did vast mischief to the corn and grass, by eating off the roots, might also have been supposed to proceed from its having rained grubs, by people fond of making everything a prodigy ; but our knowledge in natural history assured us, that these were only the hexapod worms of the common hedge-beetle called the
cockchafer.
The raining of
fishes
has also been a prodigy much talked of in France, where the streets of a town at some distance from Paris, after a terrible hurricane in the night, which tore up trees, blew down houses, and did other damage, were found in a manner covered with fishes of various sizes. Nobody here made any doubt of these having fallen from the clouds ; nor did the absurdity of fish, of five or six inches in length, being generated in the air, at all startle the people, or shake their belief in the miracle, until they found, ujκ>n inquiry, that a very well-stocked fish-pond, which stood on an eminence in the neighbourhood, had been blown dry by the hurricane, and only the great fish left at the bottom of it, the smaller fry having been tossed into their streets.
Upon the whole, all the supposed marvellous rains have been owing to substances naturally produced on the earth either never having been in the air at all, or only carried thither by accident.
RAINBOW. See Meteorology and Optics.
Lunar Rainbow.
The moon sometimes exhibits the phenomenon of an iris or rainbow by the refraction of her rays in drops of rain during the night-time. But this phenomenon is very rare. In the Philosophical Transactions for 1783, however, we have an account of three which were seen in one year, and all in the same place ; it is communicated in tw'θ letters by Mr Marmaduke Tunstall. The first was seen on the 27th of February 1782, at Greta Bridge, Yorkshire, between seven and eight at night, and appeared in tolerably distinct colours, similar to a solar one, but more faint, the orange colour seeming to Jlredominate. It happened at full moon, at which time alone they are said to be always seen. Though Aristotle is stated to have observed two, and some others have been seen by Snellius, Mr Tun-stall could only find two described w ith any accuracy ; one by Plot, in his History of Oxfordshire, which was seen by him in 1675, though without colours; and the other seen by a Derbyshire gentleman at Glapwell, near Chesterfield, described by Thoresby, and inserted in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 331. This was about Christmas 1710, and is said to have had all the colours of the
iris Solaris.
The night was windy ; and although there was then a drizzling rain and a dark cloud, in which the rainbow was reflected, it proved afterwards a light frost.
Two others were afterwards seen by Mr Tunstall. One of these was observed on the 30th of July, about eleven o’clock, which lasted about a quarter of an hour, but w ithout colours ; and the other, which appeared on the 18th of October, was perhaps the most extraordinary one of the kind that had ever been seen. It became visible about nine o’clock, and con
tinued, though with very different degrees of brilliancy, till past two. At first, though a strongly-marked bow, it was without colours ; but afterwards they were very conspicuous and vivid, in the same form as in the solar, though fainter, the red, green, and purple being the most distinguishable. About twelve it was the most splendid in appearance ; its arc was a considerably smaller segment of a circle than a solar ; and its south-east limb first began to fail, a considerable time before its final extinction. The wind was very high, nearly due west, accompanied most part of the time with a drizzling rain. It is a singular circumstance, that three of these phenomena should have been seen in so short a time and in one place ; as they have been esteemed, ever since the time of Aristotle, who is said to have been the first observer of them, and saw only two in fifty years, and since by Plot and Thoresby, almost the only two English authors who have spoken of them, to be exceedingly rare. They evidently appear to be occasioned by a refraction in a cloud or turbid atmosphere, and in general are indications of stormy and rainy weather. Thores-by, indeed, says the one he observed was succeeded by several days of fine serene weather. One particular, rather singular, in the second, namely, that of July the 30th, was its being six days after the full moon ; and the last, though of so long a duration, was three days before the full moon. That of the 27th of February was exactly at the full, which used to be judged the only time when they could be seen, though there is an account that Weidler observed one in 1719, during the first quarter of the moon, with faint colours, and in very calm weather.
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for August 1788 an account is given of a lunar rainbow by a correspondent, who saw it. “ On Sunday evening the 17th of August,” says he, “ after two days, on both of which, particularly the former, there had been a great deal of rain, together with lightning and thunder, just as the clocks were striking nine, twenty-three hours after full moon, looking through my window, I was struck with the appearance of something in the sky, which seemed like a rainbow. Having never seen a rainbow by night, I thought it a very extraordinary phenomenon, and hastened to a place where there were no buildings to obstruct my view of the hemisphere. Here I found that the phenomenon was no other than a lunar rainbow ; the moon was truly ‘ walking in brightness,’ brilliant as she could be ; not a cloud was to be seen near her ; and over against her, toward the north-west, or perhaps rather more to the north, was a rainbow', a vast arch, perfect in all its parts, not interrupted or broken as rainbows frequently are, but Unremittedly visible from one horizon to the other. In order to give some idea of its extent, it is necessary to say, that as I stood toward the western extremity of the parish of Stoke-Newington, it seemed to take its rise from the west of Hampstead, and to end, perhaps, in the river Lea, the eastern boundary of Tottenham ; its colour was white, cloudy, or grayish, but a part of its western leg seemed to exhibit tints of a faint sickly green. I continued viewing it for some time, till it began to rain ; and at length the rain increasing and the sky growing more hazy, I returned home about a quarter or twenty minutes past nine, and in ten minutes came out again ; but by that time all was over, the moon was darkened by clouds, and the rainbow of course vanished.”
RAISEEN, a district of Hindustan, in the province of Malwah1 situated between the 23d and 24th degrees of north latitude, belonging to the Mahrattas. It is bounded on the south by the Vindhaya Mountains, and is intersected by the river Betwah. The principal towns are Raiseen, Bil-sah, and Choonpore. This district is principally laid out in tobacco-fields, for which it is famed. The capital of the above district is of the same name, 126 miles east from Oojain. Long. 77. 47. E. Lat. 23. 15. N.
RAISEN-MARKET, a town of the county of Lincoln, in the hundred of Walshcroft, and in Lindsey division. It is situated near the navigable river Anklom1 and has a market, which is held on Saturday. The population amounted in 1801 to 774, in 1811 to 964, in 1821 to 1166, and in 1831 to 1428.
RAISINS, grapes prepared by suffering them to remain on the vine until they are perfectly ripe, and then drying them in the sun, or by the heat of an oven. The difference betw'een raisins dried in the sun and those dried in ovens is very obvious. The former are sweet and pleasant, but the latter have a latent acidity mixed with the sweetness, which renders them much less agreeable.
The common way of drying grapes for raisins, is to tie two or three bunches of them together whilst yet on the vine, and dip them into a hot lixivium of wood-ashes, mixed with a little of the oil of olives. This disposes them to shrink and wrinkle ; after which they are left on the vine three or four days, separated on sticks in an horizontal situation, and then dried in the sun at leisure after being cut from the tree. The finest and best raisins are those called in some places
Damascus
and
Jube raisins ;
which are distinguished from the others by their size and figure. They are flat and wrinkled on the surface, soft and juicy within, and nearly an inch long ; and, when fresh and growing on the bunch, are of the size and shape of a large olive.
RAJAH, the title of the Indian princes, the remains of those who ruled there before the Moguls.
RAJAK CHOHANS, a wild, rugged, and mountainous country, very little cultivated, in the province of Gundwa-na, and situated between the 23d and 24th degrees of north latitude. The principal tow n is Sonehut, the usual residence of the Corair rajah. This tract of country is inhabited by the wildest tribes of India, and presents one continued succession of deep gullies, ravines, chasms, and defiles. The inhabitants are very poor, being collected in villages, which consist of not more than four or five huts each. A little rice, Indian corn, and a few other smaller grains, are the chief products. The country affords abundant cover for game of all sorts ; and tigers, leopards, tiger-cats, and large black bears, abound in its woods and jungles.
RAJABARY, a considerable trading town of Bengal, in the district of Dacca, situated on the western bank of the river Megna. Long. 96. 21. E. Lat. 23. 25. N. Rajah, signifying prince, is the prænomen of numerous towns in Hindustan.
RAJAHNAGUR, a town of Bengal, in the district of Dacca, situated on the eastern bank of the Ganges. Long. 93. 14. E. Lat. 23. 22. N. There is another place of this name in the Northern Circars, 12 miles north-east of Raja-mundry.
RAJAMUNDROOG, a town and fortress of Hindustan, in the province of Bejapore, and district of Concan. It was taken by General Matthews in 1783, but afterwards ceded to Tippoo. It commands the entrance into the estuary and river Mirjee. Long. 73. 30. E. Lat. 14. 30. N.
RAJAMUNDRY, an extensive district of Hindustan, in the province of the Northern Circars, bounded on the north by Cicacole, and on the south by Ellore ; on the west by the territories of the Nizam, and on the east by the Bay of Bengal. This district is intersected by the Godavery1  and lies chiefly to the north of that river, though part of it is also to the south. At the distance of about thirty-five miles from the sea, this river divides itself into two great branches, and forms the island of Nagur, comprehending, within a triangular space, 500 square miles, but much greater in value than in extent. The whole district includes an area of 1700 square miles. The island of Nagur is intersected by lesser branches of the Godavery, which, supplying abundance of water, render it very productive, being fertilized by the slimy mould carried down by this great
river of the Deccan. The country produces abundance of sugar, which is cultivated to a great extent in the island of Nagur, and along the banks of the Elyseram River, from the abundant flow of whose water during the whole year the sugar-plantations arc watered during the driest seasons ; and also a variety of other productions are grown, such as paddy, ginger, turmeric, yams, and chillies. Sugar is also grown in considerable quantities in the delta of the Godavery, where the cultivation might be carried to any amount, and where, during the interval between the crops, leguminous plants are reared. The country, from the commencement of the hills along the banks of the Godavery, to Po-loonshah on the frontiers of Commamet, is the seat of extensive forests, where the teak-trees are produced in abundance, there being no other country on the east side of the Bay of Bengal which furnishes this valuable timber. Some attempts have been made to raise pepper, but this valuable product is produced in greater abundance and perfection on the Malabar coast. The principal towns are Rajamun-dry, Ingeram, Coringa, Bundermalanca, Peddapoor, and Pettipoor ; but Coringa is the only port which carries on any considerable export trade. Rajamundry was ceded to the French in 1753 by Salabut Jung, the subahdar of the Deccan, and acquired by the British under Lord Clive in 1765. Many additional dependencies, however, have since been acquired by conquest or policy ; and it now constitutes one of the five collectorships into which the Northern Cir-cars were subdivided in 1803.
Rajamundby, the capital of the above-mentioned district, and the residence of the British civil establishment, is situated on the east bank of the Godavery, forty miles from the sca. It formerly possessed a good brick fort, which is now in ruins. Long. 81. 54. E. Lat. 16. 59. N.
RAJEGHUR, a town of Hindustan, in the territories of the Malnattas, and province of Malwah, situated on the western bank of the Sopra River, sixty-seven miles north-east from Oojain. Long. 76. 27. E. Lat. 23. 56. N. There is another town of the same name in the province of Allahabad, situated on the river Cane, eighteen miles south-east from Chatterpoor. Long. 80. 5. E. Lat. 24. 44. N. Ra-jeghur is also the name of a range of hills in the province of Bahar.
RAJEMAL, or Rajemahal, an extensive but unproductive district of Bengal, situated about the twenty-fifth degree of north latitude. It has on the north Purneah and Dinagepoor, on the south the large zemindary of Raujeshy, on the east Dinagepoor and Raujeshy, and on the west Monghir and Purneah. It is situated on the western bank of the Ganges, and comprises a great extent of waste and mountainous territory, inhabited in many parts by the aborigines of the country, who speak a distinct language, and differ entirely from the Hindus of Bengal in their manners, as they eat without scruple all kinds of animals. They are mostly low in stature, but strong and well proportioned. There are many of them under five feet ten inches, and more under five feet than above it. They have generally flattened noses, and lips thicker than the inhabitants of the plains. The country is for the most part barren and sandy. The soil in the vicinity of Rajemahal is said to be composed of a mixture of granite rock, which is not to bc found lower down the river. The plains produce wheat and barley, and the villages abound with mango-trees of excellent quality. Indian corn and other grains form part of the crops, as well as rice, the mulberry tree, and the indigo plant. The castor-oil plant is raised in great quantities in the field ; and in the jungles, which occupy large tracts of the country, the grass grows to the height of eight or ten feet, and is adorned at the top with a beautiful white down, resembling swans’ feathers. These jungles afford shelter to numerous tigers, bears, and other wild beasts. It was in this district that the experiment was first tried of granting lands to the native invalid officers and soldiers, on condition of their residing upon them and cultivating them. In this manner was formed in the wilds the village of Sicli-gully ; and this measure has been attended with the best effects, so that the traveller now passes with as much safety from human foes, in this district, as in any other part of the country. The territory is separated from Bahar hy a range of hills, the Rajemahal Hills, compared by Bishop Heber to the hills of Cheshire, and consisting of a coarse granite. Through these hills are several passes, the chief of which is Terriagully, up a narrow winding road, where there is a ruined gateway and fort, which formerly commanded the high road leading from Moorshedabad to Patna, and was considered as the key of Bengal. The roads are generally indifferent, owing to the force of the torrents during the rains, which bar up the bridges, and carry devastation throughout the country'. The principal articles of traffic are common Hindustanee bedsteads, wood, planks, charcoal, cotton, honey, plantains, and sweet potatoes, which are exchanged for salt, tobacco, rice, cloth, iron heads for arrows, hatchets, crooks, and iron instruments. Their domestic animals are hogs, goats, and fowls, besides cats and dogs. The people of these mountains, observes Bishop Heber, and of all the hilly country between Sicligtdly and Burd-wan, are a distinct race from those of the plain, in features, language, civilization, and religion. They have neither castes nor Hindu deities, and are even said to have no idols. They are still more naked than even the Hindu peasants, and live chiefly by the chase, pursuing their game with bows and arrows. Some few of them have fire-arms. Until within the last fifty years, a deadly feud existed between them and the cultivators of the neighbouring lands, upon which they were continually making forays; and being both thieves and murderers, they were shot without mercy by the zemindars, in the same manner as tigers or other wild beasts. But by the wise and benevolent management of an excellent young man, judge and magistrate of Boglipoor, these rude tribes were reclaimed from their barbarous habits by just and merciful treatment, all violence on the part of the zemindars being forbidden, and promptly punished. He took other methods of conciliating their favour, and engaged several of them to enter his service; he established bazaars at the villages nearest them, and encouraged them to bring for sale game, millet, wax, hides, and honey, which are produced abundantly in their hills ; he gave them wheat and barley for seed ; and, finally, he raised amongst them a corps of Sepoys, who were established at Sicligully, and gave the command of them to a native chief, named Jow-rah, who, Bishop Heber remarks, was the Rob Roy, or more properly the Roderick Dhu, of the Rajemallals, but who fully justified the judgment and discrimination of Mr Cleveland’s choice. “ This good and wise man,” adds Bishop Heber, a pattern himself of the same qualities, “ died in 1784, at the early age of twenty-nine. In honour of his memory, a monument, in the form of a pagoda, was erected by the zemindars and others, at the expense of government.” The principal towns are Rajemal and Maulda, and the chief river the Ganges, but it is intersected by a variety of smaller streams in all directions.
Rajemal
(the royal residence),
the capital of the above district, is situated on the western bank of the Ganges, at the foot of a range of hills. The modern town consists only of one street, composed of stone, generally two stories in height, with the ruins of a palace, which has been much injured by the encroachments of the river. Its empty halls, marble porticoes, and half-decayed vaults, still presentimages of its former grandeur. An inconsiderable traffic continues to be carried on with the inhabitants of the hills ; and there are quarries which supply the neighbourhood with flags and millstones. This place decayed from various causes, namely, an inundation of the Ganges, which swept away a con
siderable part of it ; a conflagration, which destroyed another portion of it ; and, lastly, the transfer of the seat of government to Dacca. There is a tradition that this city was in very ancient times the seat of a Hindu government. It is first mentioned by Mahommedan historians in 1576, under the name of Agamaltel, or the house of fire. In the reign of Akbar, about 1591, Rajah Mause Singh, on his return from the conquest of the Afghans of Orissa, fixed upon this city for the capital of Bengal, the name of which he changed to Rajamahal. He erected a palace, and surrounded the town with a rampart of brick and other fortifications. The city suffered considerable injury from the troops of Aurungzebe, who took it after a short siege. It was afterwards the residence of the military collector of the district, which contributed to its support ; but since the union of the district with Boglipoor, and the transfer of the public offices to that town, it has fallen into decay. It is seventy miles north-north-west from Moorshedabad. Long. 87. 43. E. Lat. 25. 2. N.
RAJOORAII, a tow, n of Hindustan, in the province of Aurungabad, forty miles south-west from Nandere. Long. 77. 15. E. Lat. 18. 38. N.
RAJPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Be-japoor, and situated on the sea-coast of the Concan district. This was formerly a much-frequented port, and was taken from the king of Bejapoor by the Mahratta chief Sevajee in 1670. It was also of considerable importance during the wars between Aurungzebe and the Mahrattas, and formed the principal station of the fleet. Long. 73. 3. E. Lat. 16. 48. N. It is also the name of a small village in the province of Gujerat, near its western boundary. The surrounding country is covered with thick jungle, which is the resort of numerous thieves. It is likewise the name of a town in the province of Berar, situated on the river Wurda, which here makes a considerable curve to the eastward. It is ten miles south-east from Chandah. Long. 80. E. Lat. 19. 56. N.
RAKAN, a river on the north-eastern coast of Sumatra, and the largest in the island, or rather it should be considered as an inlet of the sea. It has its rise in the interior, in the Rau country, and is navigable for sloops to a great distance from the sea. Vessels are deterred from entering it by the rapidity of the current, and by that peculiar swell known in the Ganges under the name of the “ bore.”
RAKE is a well-known instrument with teeth, by which the ground is divided. See Agriculture.
Rake of a Ship
is all that part of her hull which hangs over both ends of her keel. That which is before is called the
fore-rahe
or
rahe forward,
and that part which is at the setting on of the stem-post is called the
rake-αft
or
afterward.
RAKONITZ, a city of the Austrian kingdom of Bohemia, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 896 square miles, comprehending eleven cities, eighteen towns, and 517 villages, with 144,600 inhabitants, mostly of the Sclavonian race. The city is situated on two streams, the Gelden and the Rakonitz, and has four churches, 295 houses, and 2350 inhabitants, making cotton and woollen cloths, and some hosiery and hardware. Lat. 56. 36. N.
RALEIGH, Sir Walter, fourth son of Mr Walter Raleigh of Fardel, in the parish of Cornwood, in Devonshire, was born in 1552, at Hayes, in the parish of Budley, a farm belonging to his father. About the year 1568 he was sent to Oriel College in Oxford, where he continued but a short time ; for he became one of the hundred volunteers, commanded by Henry Champernon, who, with other English troops, were sent by Queen Elizabeth to assist the queen of Navaire in defending the Protestants. He has described some of thc great battles in which he was engaged, in his History of the World. In 1577 or 1578 he proceeded to the Low Countries with the troops sent by the queen to assist the Dutch against the Spaniards, and probably shared the glory of the decisive victory obtained over Don John of Austria in 1578. On his return to England, a new enterprise engaged his attention. His half-brother, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, having obtained a patent to plant and inhabit some parts of North America, Raleigh embarked in this adventure ; but meeting with a Spanish fleet, after a smart engagement they returned, without success, in 1579.
The following year the king of Spain, in conjunction with the pope, having projected a total conquest of the English dominions, sent troops to Ireland to assist the Desmonds in the Munster rebellion. Raleigh obtained a captain’s commission under Lord Grey of Wilton, then deputy of Ireland, and embarked for that kingdom, where he greatly distinguished himself both for bravery and for skill. He returned to England, and attracted the notice of Queen Elizabeth, owing, as we are told in Naunton’s
Fragmenta Regalia, 
to the following accidental piece of gallantry. The queen, as she was one day taking a walk, being stopped by a
splashy 
place in the road, Raleigh immediately took off his new-plush mantle, and spread it on the ground. Her majesty trod gently over the soft foot-cloth. Surprised and pleased with the adventure, and much struck by the noble appearance of the young soldier, she admitted him to her court, and employed him first as an attendant on the French ambassador Simier upon his return home, and afterwards to escort the Duke of Anjou to Antwerp. During this excursion he became personally known to the Prince of Orange ; from whom, at his return, he brought especial acknowledgments to the queen, who now frequently conversed with him. But the inactive life of a courtier did not suit the enterprising spirit of Raleigh. He took advantage of his favour with the queen to obtain, in 1584, a patent empowering him to possess such countries as he should discover on the continent of North America. Accordingly he fitted out, at his own expense, two ships, which sailed in the month of April, and returned to England about the middle of September, reporting that they had discovered and taken possession of a fine country, to which the queen gave the name of
Virginia.
About this time he was elected knight of the shire for the county of Devon, and soon afterwards received the honour of knighthood ; and, to enable him to carry on his designs abroad, the queen granted him a patent for licensing the venders of wine throughout the kingdom. In 1585 he sent a new expedition to Virginia, commanded by his relation Sir Richard Greenville, who left a colony at Roanah of 107 persons, under the government of Mr Lane ; and by the establishment of this colony he was enabled to import tobacco into England. In the same year Sir Walter Rideigh obtained a grant of twelve thousand acres of the forfeited lands in the county of Cork in Ireland. About the same time he was made seneschal of the duchy of Cornwall, and warden of the Stanneries.
In the year 1587 he sent another colony to Virginia ; but his various undertakings and offices obliged him to assign his patent to a company, and the plan of colonizing was by them speedily relinquished, so that the unfortunate colonists were left to their fate. About this time we find our knight distinguished by the titles of “ Captain of the Queen’s Guards,” and “ Lieutenant-General of Cornwall.” From this period to the year 1594, he was continually engaged in projecting new expeditions, defending the kingdom from thc insults of the Spaniards, and transacting parliamentary business with equal ability and resolution. Sir Walter fell under the queen’s displeasure on account of an alleged intrigue with the daughter of Sir Nicholas Throgmorton, one of the maids of honour ; however, he married the lady, and lived with her in great conjugal harmony. During his disgrace at court he projected the conquest of Guiana in South America, and in 1595 sailed for that country, in the vain hope of discovering the golden region of
El Dorado,
supposed
to be situated in the depths of Guiana. He returned to England the same year, and soon afterwards published an account ι of his expedition. In the following year he was one of the admirals in the successful expedition against Cadiz, under the command of Howard and the Earl of Essex : and in 1597 he sailed with the same commanders against the Azores. Soon after these expeditions we find him assiduously engaged in parliamentary business. His speeches evince a knowledge of political economy far superior to any man of his time. In 1600 he was sent on a joint embassy with Lord Cobham to Flanders, and on his return made governor of Jersey.
Queen Elizabeth died in the beginning of the year 1603 ; and with her Raleigh’s glory and felicity sunk, never to rise again. Upon the accession of James, Sir Walter lost his interest at court, was stripped of his preferments, and accused of a plot against the king. He was arraigned at Winchester, and, on his trial, insulted with the most shocking brutality by the famous Coke, attorney-general, who influenced the jury to convict him without any legal proof of his guilt. After a month’s imprisonment, however, in daily expectation of his execution, he was reprieved and sent to the Tower; and his estates were given to Car, earl of Somerset, the king’s favourite. During this confinement he wrote many of his most valuable pieces, particularly his History of the World. In March 1615, after sixteen years’ imprisonment, he obtained his liberty, and immediately began to prepare for another voyage to Guiana, which proved equally abortive and ruinous. In the year 1618, he returned from this fatal voyage to England, where he was soon afterwards seized, imprisoned, and beheaded. He was sacrificed by the pusillanimous monarch to appease the Spaniards, who, whilst Raleigh lived, thought every part of their dominions in danger. He was executed in Old Palace Yard, and buried in St Margaret’s adjoining, in the sixty-sixth year of his age. His behaviour on the scaffold was manly, unaffected, cheerful, and easy. Being asked by the executioner which way he would lay his head, he answered, “ So the heart be right, it is no matter which way the head lies.” He was a man of admirable parts, extensive knowledge, undaunted resolution, and perhaps the best prose writer of his age. His great work, the History of the World, is a truly remarkable performance, both for matter and for style. It has often been reprinted in folio. An edition of his whole works was published at Oxford in 1829, in eight volumes octavo.
RALPH, James, an ingenious historical and political writer, of whose birth and country nothing has been ascertained. He was first known as a schoolmaster in Philadelphia, in North America. He came to England about the beginning of the reign of George I. and wrote some things in the dramatic way, which were not received with great applause ; but though he did not succeed as a poet, he was a very ingenious prose-writer. He wrote a History of England, commencing with the Stuarts, which is much esteemed; and so also were his political essays and pamphlets, some of which were looked upon as masterpieces. His last publication, the Case of Authors by Profession, is an excellent and entertaining performance. He died in 1762.
RAMA, or Ramla, a considerable town of Palestine, situated in one of the most fertile and extensive districts of the Holy Land ; though at the time when Dr Clarke visited the country it was almost deserted, in consequence of the ravages of the plague. It seems doubtful, however, whether this was the ancient city described in Scripture. Some ascribe its origin to the Moslems ; yet this can scarcely have been the case, as it is distinctly mentioned by St Jerome. Rama was a splendid city, well fortified, exceedingly populous, adorned with stately buildings, and abounding in all the luxuries of the East, during the time of the Crusaders. It was one of the first cities that fell into the hands of the Crusaders. In its neighbourhood many ancient ruins art.-
still to be seen. It is twenty-five miles west-north-west from Jerusalem.
RAMAGIRY, a town and fortress of the south of India, and province of Mysore. The fort is situated upon a rock, and is of considerable strength, although it surrendered to the British in 1791 without any resistance. The country in the vicinity is very wild, being overrun with woods, deep jungle, and dreadfully infested with tigers. There is but little cultivation, the peasants being chiefly employed in the breeding of cattle. In this hilly tract there is a very mild race of men, who subsist on game, wild roots, herbs and fruits, and a little grain, which they purchase from the farmers in exchange for drugs, honey, and wax. It is fifty-miles north-east from Seringapatam. Long. 77. 33. E. Lat. 12. 44. N.
RAMBERT, Sτ, a town of France, in the department of the Loire, and arrondissement of Montbrison. It is situated on the river Loire, near to its source, but where it is navigable. It has a hospital, and contains 430 houses, with 2600 inhabitants. It has a very extensive trade in wine : and in the vicinity there are several extensive iron forges. There is another town of the same name in the department of the Ain, and arrondissement of Belley. It is situated in a valley between two mountains, portions of the Jura range, on the river Albarine, and contains 390 houses, with 2430 inhabitants, w, ho carry on considerable trade in hempen cloth.
RAMBERVILLERs, a large market-town of France, in the department of the Vosges, and the arrondissement of Epinal. It stands on a mountain, at the foot of which runs the river Mortagne. It has a considerable number of iron forges in the vicinity, and much woollen and linen cloth is manufactured ; and there are mills for making paper. In 1836 its population amounted to 4990. Long. 7. 5. 18. E. Lat. 48. 20. 43. N.
RAMBOUILLET, an arrondissement of the department of the Seine and Oise, in France, extending over 518 square miles. It is divided into five cantons, and these into 119 communes, containing 66,514 inhabitants. The capital, of the same name, is situated between two woods, has a royal palace and park, and in 1836 contained 3066 inhabitants. There is here a large farm celebrated for breeding sheep with the finest wool.
RAMAZZINI, Bernardin, an Italian physician, born at Carpi, near Modena, in 1633. He was professor of physic in the university of Modena during eighteen years ; in 1700 he accepted an invitation from Padua, where he was made rector of the college ; and in 1714 he died. His works were collected and published in London in 1716; and of these, his treatise
De Morbis Artiflcum,
or on the maladies peculiar to artificers, will always be esteemed curious and useful.
RAMDROOG, a hill-fortress of Hindustan, in the province of Bejapoor, situated on the north side of the Mal-purba river. It was taken from the Mahrattas1 in 1785, by Tippoo Sultan, but w>as restored to them after the war of 1793.
RAMERGH, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Hyderabad, belonging to the Nizam. Long. 79. 32. E. Lat. 18. 31. N.
RAMESES, in
Ancient Geography,
a town built by the Israelites during their bondage in Egypt, and whence the Exodus took place. It must have been towards and not far from the Arabian Gulf, seeing that in their third station the Israelites arrivod on its shore.
Rameses, king of Lower Egypt when Jacob went thither with his family, in the 1706th year before file Christian era. Ancient authors mention several other kings of Egypt of the same name ; and it is believed that one of these princes erected, in the temple of the Sun at Thebes, the magnificent obelisk which the Emperor Constantine caused to be removed to Alexandria in the year 334. After the death
of this prince, his son Constantius had the obelisk transported from Alexandria to Rome in 352, where it was erected in the circus maximus. Its height exceeded 130 feet. When the Goths sacked the city of Rome in 409, they overthrew the obelisk, which continued buried in the sand till the time of Sixtus V. in 1587, when it was found broken in three pieces ; but these being joined together, it was set up in the square of St John Lateran.
RAMGERRY, a town and fortress of the south of India, in the province of Malabar, situated on the Paniany river, and taken by the British in 1782.
RAMGHAUT, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Delhi, pleasantly situated on the western bank of the Ganges, and carrying on a considerable traffic. Long. 78.
22.
E. Lat. 28. 12. N.
RAMGONGA, a river of Hindustan, which rises in the mountains of Thibet, and falls into the Ganges ten miles north of the ancient city of Canonge. In some places it is fordable ; but from quagmires and quicksands the fords are dangerous.
RAMGUNGE, a town of Hindustan, in the nabob of Oude’s territories, twenty-five miles south-w est from Lucknow. Long. 80. 35. E. Lat. 26. 37. N.
RAMGUR, an extensive district and town of Hindustan, in the province of Bahar. The district is situated about the 24th degree of north latitude, and is one of the most unproductive in India. Its boundaries on the north are the district of Bahar proper ; on the south, Nagpoor and Pachete ; on the east, Monghir and Pachete ; and on the west, Pa-lamow. Other limits, however, are assigned to the modern district, which comprehends a much greater space, and may be considered as belonging to the ancient province of Gund-wana. A great part of the territory is mountainous, the soil is of rock, and a considerable portion of it is overrun with impenetrable woods. The chief produce is a coarse rice. All the hills abound with iron, which is fused by the natives in large quantities, and sold. The chief rivers are the Dum-moodah and the Burrahkur ; and the principal towns are Ramgur, Chittra, and Muckundgunge. Agreat part of the population consists of Hindus, though it was conquered by the Mahommedans in the middle of the sixteenth century. The capital, of the same name, is situated on the northern bank of the Dummoodah river, and formerly possessed a strong fortress. It is 910 miles north-west from Calcutta. Long. 84. 35. E. Lat- 20. 38. N.
RAMGURRY, one of the innumerable hill-forts with which the face of the country in India is in many parts studded. It is situated in the province of Mysore, on a very steep rock, and is well fortified by art. It is twenty miles south-west of Chitteldroog.
RAMILLIES, a small village of Brabant, in the Netherlands, twelve miles north of Namur, and twenty-two southeast of Brussels. Long. 4.48. E. Lat. 50.51. N. Itisfamous for the battle fought by the allies commanded by the Duke of Marlborough and M. d’Auverquerque, against that of the two crowns, commanded by the Duke of Bavaria and Marshal Villeroi, on the 22d of May 1706.
RAMKEWRA, a town of Hindustan, belonging to the peshwa of the Mahrattas, in the province of Bejapore, twenty-seven miles north-east from Poonah. Long. 74. 20. E. Lat. 18.41. N.
RAMLEAH, the name of a ridge of mountains in Arabia, crossing the division of Nedsjed, extending 250 miles from south-west to north-east, and terminating within eighty miles of Kalaat el Moilah.
RAMMISSER, a towτ n of Hindustan, in the province of Khandeish, belonging to the Mahrattas, and situated at the confluence of the rivers Ghirah and Tuptee. Long. 75. 21. E. Lat. 21. 4. N.
RaMMISSERAM Isle, an island situated in the straits between the island of Ceylon and the continent ; it is eleven miles in length, by six in breadth, and separated from the latter by a narrow strait. It is low, sandy, and uncultivated, and is of little value, except as a seat of Hindu superstition. It possesses a celebrated pagoda, the entrance to which is through a lofty gateway, about a hundred feet in height, covered with carved work to the summit. It contains a town called Panban ; but its chief value is derived from a celebrated temple, which is about six hundred feet square, and is one of the finest pieces of architecture in India. The entrance into this temple is by a door forty-six feet in height, placed perpendicularly, with others crossing, and in massiveness of workmanship resembling the Egyptian style of architecture. None is permitted to enter into the inner temples except the attendants of Brahmins, who live in the town, and have their share of the offerings. The expenses of the rajah of Tanjore at this place usually amounted to 60,000 pagodas. No water is used except what is brought all the way from the Ganges, and is poured over the deity every morning, and then sold to the devout, by which a considerable revenue accrues to the temple. The capital is about nine miles distant from the great temple.
RAMNAD, a town and capital of a district of the same name, in the south of India, and province of Marawar. This poliam or zemindary was granted to the ancestors of the present family, on condition of their granting protection to the pilgrims on their road to Rammisseram, and for which protection they were also to pay a tax. The ruler is a lady, styled the rannee, w, ho has a clear revenue of 90,000 pagodas a year, of which she pays one half to the Company, reserving 45,000 for herself. Here is a fort built many years ago by the rannee’s ancestors, but never completed. The palace adjoins it, and is a gloomy building, with lofty walls, and no window on the outside. Near it is tlle tomb of the rannee’s deceased husband, and a Protestant church of very neat architecture. Betel-nut from Ceylon, and red silk cloths from Bengal, constitute the chief imports ; and the exports are piece-goods, cotton, and conch-shells.
RAMNAGUR, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Allahabad, and district of Benares, which stands on the eastern bank of the Ganges, opposite the city of Benares, and is esteemed one of the neatest towns of its size in India ; the houses are of stone, and the streets of a good breadth. It contains also the palace of the rajah, and a very’ handsome small temple, covered with figures in alto-relievo, having in front an extensive reservoir, and surrounded by gardens. It was the favourite residence of Cheyt Sing. Long. 83. 1. E. Lat. 25. 30. N.
RAMNODE, a town of Hindustan, in the Mahratta territories, and province of Mahvah1 forty miles south-east from Narwar. Long. 78. 5. E. Lat. 25. 6. N.
RAMPANT, in
Heraldry,
a term applied to a lion, leopard, or other beast that stands on its hind-legs, and rears up his fore-feet in the posture of climbing, thus showing only half his face. It is different from salient, in which the beast seems springing forward as if making a sally.
RAMPART, in
Fortiflxation,
is an elevation of the earth thrown out of a ditch round a place, and capable of resisting the cannon of an enemy. It is formed into bastions, curtains, and other defences
RAMPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the Mahratta province of Malwah, thirteen miles east from Bopal. Long. 77. 42. E. Lat. 23. 15. N.
RAMPOOR, a town and district of Hindustan, province of Delhi, in the district of Bareily, situated on the banks of the Corilla river. This town and district was, by the peace of Lahdong, in 1774, secured to Fyzoola Khan, a Rohilla chief. His eldest son succeeded at his death. He was afterwards assassinated by his second son, who seized the throne ; but the latter was soon afterwards expelled by a British force under Sir Ralph Abercromby, and his treasures seized, amounting in value to L.640,000, and delivered
up to the nabob of Oude, who presented the British army with eleven lacs of rupees for their services. The country was in a highly cultivated and flourishing condition under the just administration of its native ruler Fyzoola Khan ; but it quickly decayed, and was reduced to a deplorable condition under the extortions of the British, to whom it was ceded in 1801.
RAMPOORA, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Gujerat, and district of Chalawara. This place had formerly a respectable fort, which was destroyed in 1805. In the neighbourhood are many pallias or stones, erected to the memory of persons who have fallen in defence of the village. These monuments are also erected in honour of females who have sacrificed themselves to the memory of their deceased husbands.
RAMSAY, Allan, a Scottish poet, was born at Lead-hills in Lanarkshire, in October 1686. His father was employed in the management of Lord Hopetoun’s mines at that place ; but died whilst the poet was yet in his infancy, in consequence of which, and the marriage of his mother soon after his father’s death, it seems probable that, during the earlier part of his life, he continued in rather a destitute situation. He remained at Leadhills till he reached his fifteenth year, and was employed in washing, preparing the lead ore for smelting, and other operations about the works m which the children of miners and young persons are usually employed.
In 1701, when in his fifteenth year, he was bound apprentice to a wigmaker in Edinburgh ; and it appears from the record of his children’s birth in the parish register that he continued in the same humble profession until the year 1716. One of the earliest of Ramsay’s productions now known, an address to the members of the Easy Club, appeared in 1712, when he was twenty-six years of age ; and three years afterwards he was humorously appointed their poet laureat. Many of his poems written about this time were published in the form of separate pamphlets. When he had followed the occupation of wigmaker for a considerable time, he at last abandoned it for that of bookseller, as being more congenial to the literary turn of his mind. His detached pamphlets were afterwards published by him in the year 1721, in one volume 4to, which was encouraged by a very liberal subscription. The first volume of his well-known collection, the Tea-table Miscellany, was published in 1724, after which a second volume soon made its appearance, a third came forth in 1727, and a fourth after another interval of time. He soon afterwards published what is called the Evergreen, being a collection of Scotch poems written by ingenious poets prior to the year 1600. In 1725 appeared his Gentle Shepherd, part of which, called Patie and Roger, was printed in 1721, and Jenny and Meggy in 1723, the great success of which induced him to form them afterwards into a regular drama.
In the year 1728, he published a second volume of his poems, which was afterwards reprinted in 8vo. These performances so rapidly enlarged the circle of his fame and reputation, that in 1731 an edition of his poetical works was published by the booksellers of London, and tw'o years afterwards they appeared at Dublin. From his shop opposite to Niddry Street, he removed to one at the east end of the Luckenbooths. In this shop he continued to sell and lend out books until he was far advanced in years ; and we have reason to believe that he was the first person who established a circulating library in Scotland. His collection of Fables appeared in 1730, after which period he may be said to have almost discontinued the occupation of author.
Such, however, was his enterprising spirit, that he built, at his own expense, the first theatre for dramatical performances ever known in Edinburgh, which took place in what is called Carrubber1 S Close, in the year 1736 ; but he did not long enjoy hie character of manager, for the magistrates of
Edinburgh required him to shut it up, as an act of parliament prohibited all such amusements without a special license and his majesty’s letters patent. It is generally
un
derstood that he relinquished the trade of bookseller about the year 1755, being then sixty-nine years of age, and lived the remainder of his days in a small house erected by himself on the north side of the Castle-hill. A scorbutic complaint, attended w'ith excruciating pain, deprived him of his teeth, and, after corroding one of his jaw-bones, put a period to his existence on the 7th of June 1758, in the seventy-first year of his age.
Ramsay possessed a very considerable share of poetical genius. Of this his Gentle Shepherd, which will continue to be admired as long as the language in which it is written shall be understood, and especially by the natives of North Britain, to whom only the peculiarities of dialect by which it is distinguished can be familiar, affords the best proof. Some of his songs may contain far-fetched allusions and childish conceits ; but many of them are equal, if not superior, in their pastoral simplicity, to productions of a similar nature in any other language. Some of the imitations of the ancients by this poet are extremely happy ; and several of his tales have all the excellencies that belong to that species of composition. But of a great proportion of his other productions it may be pronounced with truth that they are mere prosaic compositions, filled with tlle most commonplace observations, and destitute even of the ornament of smooth versification and correct rhymes. A complete edition of his w'orks, with a Life, wτitten by the late Mr George Chalmers, was published in two volumes 8vo.
Ramsay,
Andrew Mtchaef
generally known by the name of the
Chevalier Rαmsoy,
a polite Scotch writer, was descended of a good family, and born at Ayr in 1686. His parts and learning recommended him as tutor to the son of the Earl of Wemyss ; after which, conceiving a disgust for the religion in which he had been educated, he in tlle same humour reviewed other Christian churches, and, finding none to his liking, rested for a time in Deism. Whilst he was in this uncertain state of mind, he went to Leyden, where, falling into the company of one Poiret, a mystical divine, he received the infection of mysticism, which prompted him to consult Fénelon, the celebrated archbishop of Cambray, who had imbibed principles of the same nature, and who in 1709 gained him over to the Catholic religion. The Subseqtient course of his life received its direction from his friendship and connection with this illustrious prelate ; and being appointed governor to the Duke de Chateau-Thierry and the Prince de Turenne, he was made a knight of the order of St Lazarus. Ramsay was sent for to Rome by the Chevalier de St George, to undertake the education of his children ; but on his arrival there in 1724, he found so many intrigues and dissensions, that he obtained the chevalier’s leave to return to Paris. He died in 1743, in the office of intendant to the Duke of Bouillon, prince de Turenne. The principal work of his composition is the Travels of Cyrus, which has been several times printed in English.
Ramsay,
James,
was born on the 25th of July 1733, at Frasersburgh, a small towr n in the county of Aberdeen. His parents were of most respectable character, but in circumstances by no means affluent From his earliest years he discovered a serious disposition, and a strong thirst for knowledge ; and after passing through the usual course of a Scotch grammar-school education, he inclined to pursue the studies necessary to qualify him for the profession of clergyman. Several circumstances, however, conspired to divert him for a time from his favourite pursuit.
He was educated in the episcopal persuasion ; and having been unhappy enough to lose his father whilst yet very young, he found, upon his advancing towards the state of manhood, that the joint fortunes of himself and his mother could not bear the expense of a regular education in either
of the universities of Oxford or of Cambridge. Yielding, therefore, to necessity, he resolved to study surgery and pharmacy ; and was with this view bound apprentice to Dr Findlay, a physician in Frasersburgh. But though obliged to relinquish for a time his favourite studies, he did not think ignorance excusable in a surgeon any more than in a clergyman ; nor did he conceive that he would ever become eminent in the profession in which circumstances had placed him, merely by skill in setting a bone or compounding a medicine. He determined, therefore, to make himself acquainted with at least the outlines of the liberal arts and sciences ; and with this view he repaired in 1750 to King’s College, Aberdeen, where he obtained one of the bursaries or exhibitions which are there annually bestowed upon such candidates as display the most accurate knowledge of the Latin language. The small sum of five pounds, however, which none of these bursaries exceeds, was still inadequate to the expense of residence in college ; but our young student was soon destined to obtain a more valuable exhibition, also by his own merit.
During the long vacation he returned to his master Dr Findlay, and was by him intrusted with a very desperate case in surgery, of which his management may be said to have laid the foundation of his future fortunes. His skill and excellent character recommended him so effectually to Sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain, that he presented him with a bursary of fifteen pounds a year, which commenced at the next session or term in the same college.
Sir Alexander, whom he visited during some of the vacations, was so well pleased with his conversation, that he promised him another bursary, in his gift, of L.25 a year, to commence immediately on the expiration of that which he enjoyed. This promise he performed in the beginning of the year 1755; and, at the solicitation of Dr Findlay, even paid the money in advance, to enable the exhibitioner to travel for the purpose of improving himself in his profession.
Thus provided, Mr Ramsay went to London, and studied surgery and pharmacy under the auspices of Dr Macaulay, in whose family he lived for two years, esteemed alike by him and by his lady. Afterwards, having passed the usual examination at Surgeons’ Hall, he served in his medical capacity for several years in the royal navy.
Having met with an accident, by which his thigh-bone was fractured, he once more turned his thoughts towards the church ; and on coming home with Sir Charles Middleton he was admitted into orders ; after which he immediately returned to St Christopher’s, where he was presented by the governor to two rectories, valued at L.700 a year.
As soon as he took possession of his livings, in 1763, he married Miss Rebecca Akers, the daughter of a planter of the best family connections in the island, and began to regulate his household on the pious plan inculcated in his Essay on the Treatment and Conversion of the African Slaves in the British Sugar Colonies. He summoned all his own slaves daily to the prayers of the family, when he took an opportunity of pointing out to them their duty in the plainest terms, reproving those who had done amiss, and commending such as had shown anything like virtue. Although his serious studies were now theological, he considered himself as answerable to God, his country, and his own family, for a proper use of every branch of knowledge which he possessed. He therefore took the charge of several plantations around him in the capacity of a medical practitioner, and attended them with unremitting diligence and with great success. Thus he lived till the year 1777, when, relinquishing the practice of physic entirely, he paid a visit to the place of his nativity, which he had not seen since 1755. His mother, whose latter days he had made comfortable by a handsome annuity, had been dead for some years ; but he rewarded all who had been attentive to her,
or in early life serviceable to himself ; and he continued the pension to his sister, who had a numerous family, for which her husband was unable to provide.
After remaining three weeks in Scotland, and nearly a year in England, during which time he was admitted into the confidence of Lord George Germaine, then secretary of state for the American department, Mr Ramsay was appointed chaplain to Admiral Barrington, at that time going out to take a command in the West Indies. Under this gallant officer, and afterwards under Lord Rodney, he was present at several engagements, where he displayed a fortitude and zeal for the honour of his country which would not have disgraced the oldest admiral. To the navy, indeed, he seems to have been strongly attached ; and, at an early period of his life, he wrote an Essay on the Duty and Qualifications of a Sea-officer, with such a knowledge of the service as would have done honour to the pen of the most experienced commander. Although caressed by the admirals under whom he served, Mr Ramsay once more quitted the naval service, and retired to his pastoral charge in the island of St Christopher’s. There, however, though the former animosities against him had entirely subsided, and though his friendship wr as now solicited by every person of consequence in the island, he remained but a little time. Sick of the life of a planter and of the prospect of slavery around him, he resigned his livings, and bidding adieu to the island, returned to England with his wife and family in the end of the year 1781. Immediately on his arrival, he was, through the interest of his steady friend Sir Charles Middleton, presented to the livings of Teston and Nettle-stead, in the county of Kent. Here he was soon determined, by the advice of those whom he most respected, to publish an Essay, which had been written many years before, on the Treatment and Conversion of African Slaves in the British Sugar Colonies. This publication involved him in controversies which embittered his life. The agitation given to his mind, and the fatigues he underwent in his endeavours to rescue from misery the most helpless portion of the human race, contributed to shorten a life which had been in no common degree useful. He had for some time been afflicted with a pain in his stomach, for which he was prevailed upon, though with great reluctance, to try the effects of air and exercise, by attempting a journey of a hundred miles. But in London, being seized with a violent vomiting of blood, he was unable to proceed and unfit to be removed hence ; and, in the house of Sir Charles Middleton, he ended his days, on the 20th of July 1789. His works, besides those to which we have already alluded, consist of a volume of Sea-Sermons, and a Treatise on Signals.
RAMSBURY, a town of the county of Wilts, in the hundred of its own name, and 70 miles from London, is situated on the river Kennet- It once had a market, which, however, has declined. The population amounted in 1801 to 1963, in 1811 to 2095, in 1821 to 2335, and in 1831 to 2290.
RAMSEY, a market-town of the county of Huntingdon, and hundred of Hurstingtone, sixty-eight miles from London. Near to it is the lake or mere of the same name, which abounds with fish, chiefly eels and perch. There are the remains bf an abbey, once distinguished for its extent and wealth, which is said to have been founded in the reign of the Saxon king Edgar, the son of Athelstane. There is a market, which is held on Saturday. The population amounted in 1801 to 1894, in 1811 to 2390, in 1821 to 2814, and in 1831 to 3006.
Ramsey, a town in the parish of St Maugholds, in the Isle of Man. It is situated on the north-east coast of the island, about sixteen miles from Douglas. Though the harbour is small, there is good anchorage in a spacious bay near it, where there is a lighthouse, and the whole is de-
fended by a fort. It contains about 500 houses and 2000 inhabitants.
Ramsey, a small island on the shore of the county of Pembroke, in South Wales. It is nearly three quarters of a mile in length and half a mile in breadth, and forms the north point of St Bride’s Bay. It was formerly much frequented by persons passing to Ireland, being the shortest water distance between the two islands ; as from St Bride’s to Camaroot Point, on the south-east angle of Ireland, is only sixteen leagues.
RAMSGATE, a large town and port, originally a hamlet, in the parish of St Lawrence, in the Isle of Thanet, in Kent, seventy-three miles from London, and seventeen from Canterbury. It is situated in a pleasant valley on the shore, with extensive views of the sea from the North and South Foreland, and of the shipping in the Downs. It has owed its rise to the construction of a most costly pier, by which a harbour has been created, which serves as a refuge for ships in stormy weather. It is capable of containing 500 sail of vessels. The pier extends 800 feet into the sea, and its top, which is twenty-six feet broad, furnishes a fine promenade. A new inner harbour is in progress, and will speedily be opened. Ramsgate, like Margate, has become a favourite place of resort for sea-bathing ; and though it has long bcen so, the number of visitors has vastly increased since the introduction of steam-vessels, by which passengers may in a few hours be conveyed to and from the metropolis. The accommodations for bathers are good, and there are abundance of hotels and lodging-houses to be procured at a moderate rate. There are a fine assembly-room, numerous libraries, and a handsome chapel, with meeting-houses for the various dissenting sects. It has some trade to the Baltic ; and many of the lower classes are occupied as fishermen, pilots, and watermen. It is in the liberty of the cinque port of Sandwich. The population amounted in 1801 to 3110, in 1811 to 4222, in 1821 to 6031, and in 1831 to 7985.
RAMTRUT, a deity worshipped by the Ranazins of Hindustan, where he has a celebrated temple at Onor. He is represented as more resembling a monkey than a man.
RAM U S, Peteb, was one of the most celebrated professors of the sixteenth century. Hewas born in Picardy in 1515. A thirst for learning prompted him, when very young, to repair to Paris, and he was admitted as a servant in the college of Navarre. Spending the day in waiting on his masters, and the greater part of the night in study, he made such surprising progress, that, when he took his degree as master of arts, lie offered to maintain a doctrine quite opposite to that of Aristotle. This raised him many enemies ; and the first two books he published,
Institutiones Dialec-ticœ
and
Aristotelicw Animadversiones,
occasioned great disturbances in the university of Paris. The opposition against him was not a little heightened by his deserting the Catholic religion, and professing that of the Reformed. Being thereby forced to retire from Paris, he visited the universities of Germany, and received great honours wherever he went. He returned to France in 1571, and lost his life miserably during the massacre of St Bartholomew’s day. He was a great orator, a man of general learning, and endowed with fine moral qualities. He published many books, which Teissier enumerates. Ramus’s merit in his opposition to Aristotle, and his firmness in undermining his authority, is unquestionably very great. But it has been doubted, and with much reason, whether he was equally successful in his attempts to form a new logical institute. The following general outline of his plan is given in Dr Enfield’s History of Philosophy. “ Considering dialectics as the art of deducing conclusions from premises, he endeavours to improve this art, by uniting it with that of rhetoric. Of the several branches of rhetoric, he considers invention and disposition as belonging equally to logic. Making Cicero his chief guide, he divides his treatise on dialectics into two parts, the first of which treats of the invention of arguments, the second of judgments. Arguments he derives not only from what the Aristotelians call middle terms, but from any kind of proposition, which, connected with another, may serve to prove any assertion. Of these he enumerates various kinds. Judgments he divides into axioms, or self-evident propositions,
dianoea,
or deductions by means of a series of arguments. Both these he divides into various classes ; and illustrates the whole by examples from the ancient orators and poets.
“ In the logic of Ramus, many things are borrowed from Aristotle, and only appear under new names; and many others are derived from other Grecian sources, particularly from the dialogues of Plato, and the logic of the Stoics. The author has the merit of turning the art of reasoning from the futile speculations of the schools to forensic and common use ; but his plan is defective in confining tlle whole dialectic art to the single object of disputation, and in omitting many things, which respect the general culture of the understanding and the investigation of truth. Notwithstanding the defects of his system, we cannot, however, subscribe to the severe censure which has been passed upon Ramus by Lord Bacon and others ; for much is, we think, due to him for having with so much firmness and perseverance asserted the natural freedom of the human understanding. The logic of Ramus obtained great authority in the schools of Germany, Great Britain, Holland, and France ; and long and violent contests arose between his followers and those of the Stagyrite, till his fame vanished before that of Descartes.”
RAN, in the old English writers, means open or public robbery, so manifest as not to be denied. Ran
dicitur aperta rapina quœ negari non potest.
(Lamb. 125,
Leg. Canut.
cap. 58.) Hence it is now' commonly said of one w ho takes the goods of another injuriously and violently, that he has snatched or taken all that he could
rap
and
ran.
RANAI, or Obanai, one of the Sandwich Islands, in the North Pacific Ocean, about nine miles from Mowee. The population is estimated at 20,000. The island produces few plantains or bread-fruit trees ; but abounds in yams, sweet potatoes, and other esculent roots and vegetables. Long. 185. 23. E. Lat. 20. 51. N.
RANDAZZO, a city of the district Demone, in the intendency of Messina, in Sicily. It stands on the side of Mount Ætna, looking over a rich and extensive plain, near a curious lake abounding in spunges, the collecting of which forms a part of the employment of the inhabitants. It is 120 miles from Palermo, and moderately healthy. The population amounts to 4700.
RANDERS, a city of Denmark, the capital of a bailiwick of the same name, in the province Aarhuus. It is situated at the mouth of the river Guden, and was once larger, and fortified. It now contains 515 houses and 4570 inhabitants, who make some cloths, and have breweries and distilleries. Long. 9. 58. 22. E. Lat. 56. 27. 48. N.
RANDIER, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Gujerat1 and district of Broach, which is said to have been in ancient times a large city. It is situated opposite to Surat, on the north side of the Tuptee river. Long. 73. 3. E. Lat. 21. 16. N.
RANDOLPH, Thomas, an English poet in the seventeenth century, was born in Ndrthamptonshire in 1605. He was educated a. Westminster and Cambridge, and very early distinguished by his excellent genius ; for about the age of nine or ten years he wrote the History of the Incarnation of our Saviour in verse. His subsequent writings established his character, and gained him the esteem and friendship of some of the greatest men of that age, particularly of Ben Jonson, who adopted him as one of his sons in the muses. He died in the year 1634, and was honourably
interred. His principal works are, L The Muses’ Lookingglass, a comedy ; 2. Amyntas, or the Impossible Dowτy, a pastoral, acted before the king and queen ; 3. Aristippus, or , the Jovial Philosopher ; 4. The Conceited Pedlar ; 5. Γhe Jealous Lovers, a Comedy ; 6. Hey for Honesty, down with Knavery, a Comedy ; and several other poems.
RANDOM Shot, in
Gunnery,
is a shot made when the muzzle of a gun is raised above the horizontal line, and is not designed to shoot directly or point black. The utmost random of any piece is about ten times as far as the bullet will go point blank. The bullet will go farthest when the piece is mounted at an angle of about forty-five degrees above the level range.
RANGALORE, a town and fortress of Hindustan, in the province of the Northern Circars, and district of Cica-cole. Long. 83. 20. E. Lat. 18. 20. N.
RANGAMUTTY, a town and district of Hindustan, in the north-western extremity of Bengal, situated about the twenty-sixth degree of north latitude, and formerly included in the extensive kingdom of Kamroop. After its subjugation by the Mahommedans, about the middle of the seventeenth century, it was annexed to the collectorship of Rungpore. It has for its boundaries Bootan on the north, the Gamow Hills on the south, Assam on the east, and Cooch Bahar and Rungpoor on the west. It is a wild uncultivated country, stretching on both sides of the Brahmaputra, easterly, to the confines of Assam. Many parts of the country, the area of which is 2620 square miles, might be rendered extremely productive, although at present they yield little more than a few elephants, which are caught annually in the neighbouring forests. The chief river is the Brahmaputra, which nearly intersects the country ; and the principal towns are Rangamutty and Goalporah. The former is situated near the hills, between two tributary streams of the Brahmaputra. It has declined from its ancient prosperity. Long. 90. E. Lat. 26. 9. N.
RANGE, in
Gunnery,
the path of a bullet, or the line it describes from the mouth of the piece to the point where it lodges. If the piece lie in a line parallel to the horizon, it is called the
right
or
level range ;
if it be mounted to 45°, it is said to have the
utmost range ;
and all others between 0° and 45° are called the
intermediate ranges.
RANGER, a sworn officer of a forest, appointed by the king’s letters patent, and whose proper business it is to walk through his charge, to drive back the deer out of the purlieus, and to present all trespasses within his jurisdiction at the next forest court.
RANGOON, a city and principal sea-port of the Bur-man empire, in the province of Pegu. It is situated on the Rangoon river, one of the mouths of the great Irrawaddy, about twenty-four miles from its mouth. The river is broad, deep, and navigable. At its entrance it is nearly a mile in width, and is distinguished by a clump of trees called the Elephant, which stands on the western point. It gradually narrow's to about a quarter of a mile opposite Rangoon. There is a depth of from six to eight fathoms water in the river, and no shoals ; and there are four fathoms water on the bar at half flood. About three miles below the town is the mouth of the Syriam or Pegu river, where it joins the Rangoon. The country above is level, and agreeably variegated with clumps of trees ; although it appears to be much depopulated, from the frequent wars between the Burmese and Peguers. The town, with the exception of the public offices, and one or two houses, is built of wood, extends along the bank of the river about a mile, and is about half or three quarters of a mile in breadth. It is built in the form of a square, surrounded by a stockade fifteen feet high, and on the north side it is farther strengthened by an indifferent fosse, across which a wooden bridge is thrown. The fort or stockade is an irregular square, the north and south faces of which were found to measure 1145 yards, the
east 598, and the west 187. On the north face there arθ two gates and a sally-port, on the south three gates and three sally-ports, on the east two gates, and on the west one gate and one sally-port. The stockade is fifteen feet high, and is composed of heavy beams of teak timber. The city and its suburbs are divided into eight wards, superintended by an officer, whose business it is to maintain, watch, and ward within his division. The palisaded fort or stockade is a town composed of three wide and clean streets running east and west, and three smaller ones crossing them, and fronting tlle gates of the south face. The most populous part of the town is the suburb called TackalIy, immediately on the west face of the stockade. Wooden stages are erected within the stockade for musketeers to stand on in case of attack. A battery of twelve pieces of cannon, raised on the banks, commands the river ; but it has fallen into disrepair. The town has by no means an imposing appearance. The wooden buildings along the banks of the river resemble barns, though the great temple of Shoe Da-goon, in the midst of its intermediate spires, forms a splendid object. This temple is a well-known place of pilgrimage ; it is frequented by many strangers during the vernal festival in March, when, as it is usual in the East to connect commerce and religion, a great fair is held near it. It is the only temple frequented as a common place of worship by the inhabitants of Rangoon and its vicinity. The principal part of the city is situated within the stockade ; the streets are wide and at right angles ; and one or two houses only are built of brick and chunam, the chief of which is the custom-house. The dwellings of the common people are constructed of posts driven into the ground, at the distance of two or three feet, from which there is a bamboo grating forming the floor. The roof is covered with the leaves of the palmyra, or long grass twisted round and sewed to slips of bamboo. The houses of the priests are large buildings of teak, with substantial tiled roofs ; the floors are commonly eight or twelve feet from the ground, and many of them are carved. In these are contained the marble or gilded wooden images of Gaudma, seated on an oak, in which their sacred books are contained. The suburb of Tackally, inhabited by the lower classes, is more populous than the town itself. Almost all the houses here, as in other parts, are composed of the cheapest and frailest materials, and are peculiarly liable to destruction by fire. In March 1826, Mr Crawford, who was sent on an embassy to Ava, saw the whole suburb burned to the ground in a few hours, from the accident of a pot boiling over. It was reconstructed in less than a month, and the houses were far more numerous than before the accident. The great pagoda or golden
temple is situated two and a half miles in the rear of Rangoon ; the road to it is through one of the northern gates, by a causeway across the fosse. The road then ascends between two rows of smaller pagodas, until the eminence is reached upon which the temple is situated, occupying the highest of three platforms. The building is octagonal at the base and spiral at the top, and is estimated at 330 feet in height. It is highly gilt on the top, and is an umbrella of open iron work, surmounted by a vane, and a small globe of glass. Bells are hung round the lower part. There are no apertures in the building, which is solid throughout. It has small niches all around, that formerly contained images of marble and wood. But these were mostly removed by the English when they occupied the town during the Burmese war. The smaller pagodas were also mostly pillaged by the soldiery. On the southern side of the pagoda is a beautiful pavilion, gilt and painted, containing an image of Gaudma, of gigantic dimensions. The river Rangoon is extremely commodious for ship-building, w hich is carried on to a great extent. The spring-tides rise to the perpendicular height of twenty feet. The banks are soft, and so flat that there is need of little labour for the formation of
docks, and vessels of any burden may be built. It is estimated that vessels can be built at Rangoon for one third less than at Bombay. This capital of the Burmese empire is the resort of traders from all nations ; and it is also an asylum for less respectable characters, such as insolvent debtors from different settlements of India, foreigners of desperate fortunes, who are received in the most friendly manner by the Burmans, and generally support themselves by some petty traffic. Malabars, Moguls, Persians, Parsees, Armenians, Portuguese, French, and English, men of all countries and of all complexions, are here seen mingled together on the exchange ; and all meet with the most perfect toleration for their religion, provided they do not meddle with the worship of the Burmese divinity, Guadma, or with the ceremonies of any other sect. A considerable portion of the inhabitants are Chinese, who are merchants, shopkeepers, artisans, and constitute the most industrious portion of the community. A share of the trade is also engrossed by the Parsees, Armenians, and a small portion of the Mahommedans, who ∙are also selected by government to fill offices of trust that relate to the trade and the transactions of foreigners.
The imports from the British settlements consist chiefly of coarse piece-goods, glass, hardware, and broad cloth. The returns are chiefly made in timber, with which Madras is mostly supplied from Rangoon. The trade is carried on in boats, about ten or twelve of which are annually fitted out, and about thirty more from various towns on the Irrawaddy river. These proceed by the way of the Bassein river, through the channels which divide the great Negrais from the continent, along the coast of Arracan, to Luckipore, Dacca, Calcutta, Bogwandola, and even to Patna and Benares. They caιτy each a crew of from twenty to twenty-five men ; and on an average 4000 rupees in bullion, the remainder of the cargo consisting of sheathing boards, sticks of copper from China, Sticklac, cutch, ivory, and wax.
The inhabitants are stout and athletic, the men being
about five feet eight inches in height, with straight muscular limbs; the women rather diminutive, but well formed in every respect, except the nose, which is flat. Both sexes are of a copper colour ; they are lively and inquisitive ; almost all of them read and write, and have no prejudices that obstruct the progress of improvement. The women are not immured at home like those of Hindustan, but superintend the domestic economy, and weave the clothes worn by the men. Their own dress is scanty, and scarcely affords them a decent covering. They are not strict in their morals ; and the men are in the practice of selling their wives and their daughters. The population is estimated at 30,000 ; but Crawford, on a census which he directed to be made whilst in the country, states it at 181,000. Long. 96. 9. E. Lat. 16. 47. N.
RANK, the order or place assigned to a person, suitably to his quality or merit.
Rank is a straight line formed by the soldiers of a battalion or squadron, drawn up side by side. This order was established for the marches, and for regulating the different bodie9 of troops and officers which compose an army.
Rank and Precedence,
in the army and navy, are estimated as follows :
Engineers RANK.
Chief, as colonel ; director, as lieu-tenant-colonel ; sub-director, as major ; engineer in ordinary, as captain ; engineer extraordinary, as captain-lieu-tenant; sub-engineer, as lieutenant ; practitioner engineer, as ensign.
Navy RANK.
Admiral, or commander-in-chief of his majesty’s fleet, has the rank of a field-marshal ; admirals, with their flags on the main-topmast-head, rank with generals of horse and foot ; vice-admirals, with lieutenant-generals ; rear-admirals, as major-generals ; commodores with broad pendants, as brigadier-generals ; captains of postships, after three years from the date of their first commission, as colonels ; other captains, as commanding post-ships, as lieutenant-colonels ; captains not taking post, as majors ; lieutenants, as captains.
RANKS and Files
are the horizontal and vertical lines of soldiers when drawn up for service.
RANNY BEDNORE, a port and town of Hindustan, in the Balaghaut ceded territories. It is sixty miles northeast from Chitteldroog. Long. 75. 42. E. Lat. 14. 33. N.
RANNYPOOR, a town of Hindustan, province of Mal-wah, in the Mahratta territories. It is forty-four miles north-west from Chatterpoor. Long. 79. 16. E. Lat. 25. 
13. N.
RANS DES VACHES, or Raas des Vaches, a celebrated melody of the cow-herds in Switzerland. There seem to be several melodies of that name, employed to assemble the cows in the evening, and to lead them home from their Alpine pastures. The great violinist Viotti wrote down one of these, which he heard amongst the valleys of Switzerland; and used to perform it wr ith such effect in London as to draw tears from his auditors. It has been frequently related, on unquestionable authority, that Swiss
soldiers on foreign service, when they happened to hear tiιe
rans des vaches
performed, were so overpowered by its effect as to be rendered incapable of attending to their duty. We know a British officer in the army who witnessed a remarkable instance of this effect in the military band attached to an English regiment- In Rogers’ Pleasures of Memory there is an elegant allusion made to the nostalgia or 
home-sichness
produced by the
vans des vaches
upon Swiss soldiers in foreign lands.
RANSOM, a sum of money paid for the redemption of a slave, or the liberty of a prisoner of war. In our lawbooks, ransom also means a sum paid for the pardon of some great offence, and to obtain the offender’s liberty.
RaNTAMPORE, a fortress of Hindustan, and the capital of a district of the same name, in the province of Ajmeer, and in the middle of the Arrabarne Hills. It is said to have been built in the thirteenth century, and is esteemed one of the largest and strongest fortresses in India ; but as it has never been visited by any Europeans, its strength is not accurately known. The travelling distance is 120 miles south-west from Agra, and 260 miles from Oojain. Long. 76. 25. E. Lat. 26. 2. N.
RAPE, in
Law,
the carnal knowledge of a woman forcibly and against her will. This, by the Jewish law, was punished with death, in case the damsel was betrothed to another man ; and in case she was not betrothed, then a heavy fine of fifty shekels was to be paid to the damsel’s father, and she was to be the wife of the ravisher all the days of his life, without that power of divorce which was in general permitted by the Mosaic law.
The Roman law punishes with death and confiscation of goods the crime of ravishment, under which it includes both the offence of forcible abduction, or taking away a woman from her friends, and also the present one of forcibly dishonouring her ; either of which, without the other, is in that law sufficient to constitute a capital crime. The stealing away a woman from her parents or guardians, and debauching her, is equally penal by the emperor’s edict, whether she consent or be forced ; and this in order to take away every opportunity of offending in this way from women, whom the Roman law supposes never to go astray without the seduction and arts of the other sex ; and therefore, by restraining and making so highly penal the solicitations of the men, they meant to secure effectually the honour of the women. But our English law does not entertain quite such sublime ideas of the honour of either sex, as to lay the blame of a mutual fault upon one of the transgressors only ; and therefore it is a necessary ingredient in the crime of rape, that it must be against the woman’s will.
Rape was punished by the Saxon laws, particularly those of Athelstane, with death ; which was also agreeable to tlle old Gothic or Scandinavian constitution. But this was afterwards thought too hard ; and in its stead another severe but not capital punishment was inflicted by William the Conqueror, namely, castration and loss of eyes, which continued till after Bracton wrote, in the reign of Henry III. But in order to prevent malicious accusations, it was then the law (and, it seems, still continues to be so in appeals of rape), that the woman should, immediately afterwards, go to the next towr n, and there make discovery to some credible persons, of the injury she had suffered, and afterwards should acquaint the high constable of the hundred, the coroners, and the sheriff, with the outrage. This seems to correspond in some degree with the laws of Scotland and Aragon, which require that complaint must be made within twenty-four hours ; though afterwards, by statute Westra. 1, c. 13, the time of limitation in England was extended to forty days. At present there is no time of limitation fixed ; for, as it is usually now punished by indictment at the suit of tlle king, the maxim of law takes place, that
nullum tern-pus occurrit regi ;
but the jury will rarely give credit to
a 
stale complaint. During the former period also it was held for law, that the woman, by consent of the judge and her parents, might redeem the offender from the execution of his sentence, by accepting him for her husband ; if he also was willing to agree to the exchange, but not otherwise In the 3d Edward I. by the statute Westm. 1, c. 13, the punishment of rape was much mitigated ; the offence itself, of ravishing a damsel within age, that is, twelve years old, either with or without her consent, or of any other woman against her will, being reduced to trespass, if not prosecuted by appeal within forty days, and subjecting the offender only to two years’ imprisonment, and a fine at the king’s will. But this lenity being productive of the worst consequences, it was, in ten years afterw, ards, 13 Edward I., found necessary to make the offence of forcible rape felony by statute Westm. 2, c. 34. And by statute 18 Elizabeth, c. 7, it is made felony without benefit of clergy ; as is also the abominable wickedness of carnally knowing or abusing any woman-child under the age of ten years, in which case the consent or non-consent is immaterial, as by reason of her tender years she is incapable of judgment and discretion. Sir Matthew Hale is indeed of opinion that Buch profligate actions committed on an infant under the age of twelve years, the age of female discretion by the common law, either with or without consent, amount to rape and felony, as well since as before the statute of Queen Elizabeth. But that law has in general been held only to extend to infants under ten ; though it should seem that damsels between ten and twelve are still under the protection of the statute Westm. 1, the law with respect to their seduction not having been altered by either of the subsequent statutes.
A male infant, under the age of fourteen years, is presumed by law to be incapable of committing a rape, and therefore, it seems, cannot be found guilty of it. For though in other felonies
malitia supplet œtatem ;
yet, as to this particular species of felony, the law supposes an imbecility of body as well as mind.
The civil law seems to suppose a prostitute or common harlot incapable of any injuries of this kind ; not allowing any punishment for violating the chastity of her who has indeed no chastity at all, or at least has no regard to it. But the law of England does not judge so hardly of offenders, as to cut off all opportunity of retreat even from common strumpets, and to treat them as incapable of amendment. It therefore holds it to be felony to force even a concubine or harlot, because the woman may have forsaken that unlawful course of life ; for, as Bracton well observes,
licet meretrix fuerit antea, certe tunc temporis non fuit, cum reclamando nequitiœ ejus consentire, noluit.
RAPHAEL, or Raffaelle, d’Urbino, the greatest, most sublime, and most excellent painter that has appeared since the revival of the fine arts, was the son of an indifferent painter named
Sanzio,
and was born at Urbino on Good Friday 1482. The popes Julius II. and Leo X., who employed him, loaded him with wealth and honour ; and it is said that Cardinal de St Bibiana had such a value for him that he offered him his niece in marriage. His genius is admired in all his pictures ; his contours are free, his designs correct, his figures elegant, his expressions lively, his attitudes natural, his heads graceful ; in fine, everything is grand, beautiful, just, natural, and adorned with grace. These various perfections he derived not only from his excellent abilities, but from his study of antiquity and anatomy, and from the friendship which he contracted with Ariosto, who contributed not a little to the improvement of his taste. His pictures are to be found principally in Italy and in Paris. That of the T ransfiguration, preserved at Rome in the church of St Peter Monterio, passes for his masterpiece. Raphael had a handsome person, was well proportioned, and had great sweetness of temper ; he was polite, affable, and modest.
Nevertheless, he lived in the utmost splendour ; most of the eminent masters of his time were ambitious of working under him ; and he never went out without a crowd of artists and others, who followed him purely from respect. He was not only the best painter in the world, but perhaps the best architect too, on which account Leo X. charged him with building St Peter’s church at Rome ; but he was too much addicted to pleasure, which occasioned his death at the early age of thirty-seven. See Painting.
RAPHAIM, or Rephaim, a name signifying
Giants,
as they really were, and an actual people too, situated in Ba-san or Batanea, beyond Jordan, and separated from the Zan-zummim by the river Jabbok. Thi⅛ is also the name of a valley near Jerusalem.
RÀPHANIDOSIS, a particular kind of punishment inflicted at Athens upon adulterers.
RAPIER, formerly signified a long old-fashioned sword, such as those worn by the common soldiers ; but it now denotes a small sword, as contradistinguished to a back-sword.
RAPIN, Rene, a Jesuit and eminent French writer, was born at Tours in 1621. He taught polite literature in the society of the Jesuits with great applause, and was justly esteemed one of the best Latin poets and greatest wits of his time. He died at Paris in the year 1687. His principal works were, 1. A great number of Latin poems, which have rendered him famous throughout all Europe, amongst which are his
Hortorum Iibri quatuor ;
2. Reflections on Eloquence, Poetry, History, and Philosophy ; 3. Comparisons between Virgil and Homer, Demosthenes and Cicero, Plato and Aristotle, Thucydides and Titus Livius ; 4∙. The History OfJansenism ; and, 5. Several works on religious subjects. The best edition of his Latin poems is that of Paris in 1723, in three vols, l2mo.
Rapin de Thoybas,
Paul de,
a celebrated historian, was the son of James de Rapin, lord of Thoyras, and was born at Castres in 1661. He was at first educated under a tutor in his father’s house, and afterwards sent to Puylaurens, and thence to Samur. In 1679 he returned to his father, with a design to apply himself to the study of the law, and was admitted an advocate ; but some time afterwards, reflecting that his being a Protestant would prevent·his advancement at the bar, he resolved to quit the profession of the law, and to apply himself to that of the sword. His father, however, would not consent to the change. The revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685, and the death of his father, which happened two months afterwards, made him resolve to come to England ; but as he had no hopes of any settlement there, his stay was but short. He therefore went to Holland, and enlisted himself in the company of French volunteers at Utrecht, commanded by M. Rapin, his cousin-german. He attended the Prince of Orange into England in 1688 ; and the following year Lord Kingston made him an ensign in his regiment, with which he proceeded to Ireland, where he gained the esteem Ofhisofficers at the siege OfCarrickfergus, and soon received a lieutenant’s commission. He was present at the battle of the Boyne, and was shot through the shoulder at the siege of Limerick. He was soon afterwards made captain of the company in which he had been ensign ; but, in 1693, he resigned his company to one of his brothers, in order to become tutor to the Earl of Portland’s son. In 1699, he married Marianne Testard ; but this marriage neither abated his care of his pupil, nor prevented his accompanying him in his travels. Having finished this employment, he returned to his family, which he had settled at the Hague ; and there he continued some years. But as he found his family increase, he resolved to retire to some cheap country ; and accordingly removed, in 1707, to Wcse!, where he wrote his History of England, and some other works. Though he was of a strong constitution, yet seventeen ycars,  application, for so long was he engaged in composing his .great work, entirely ruined his health. He died in 1725.
Rapin wrote, in French, 1. A Dissertation on IheWhigsand Tories ; 2. His History of England, printed at the Hague in 1726 and 1727, in nine vols. 4to, and reprinted at Trevoux in 1728, in ten vols. 4to. This' last edition is more complete than that of tlle Hague. It has been translated into English, and improved with notes, by Mr Tindal, in two vols-folio. This performance, although the work of a foreigner, is deservedly esteemed as the fullest and most impartial collection of English political transactions extant.
RAPPERSCHWEIL, a small city of Switzerland,
in
the canton of St Gall. It is fortified, and has a citadel, but the defences are at present in bad repair. It is situated near the head of the lake of Zurich, over an arm of which there is perhaps the longest bridge in the world, being 4800 feet in length, and only twelve feet in breadth. It is built of wood, and has no rail or balustrade on either side, so that the first entrance upon it is rather terrific to travellers in a carriage. The town is old and ill built, but without the walls the suburbs are delightful, and the soil in its immediate vicinity is very fruitful. Some machinery for spinning cotton has of late been erected. The population is about 1550 persons, but rapidly increasing.
RAPPOLSTEIN, a town of France, in the department of the Upper Rhine, which, before the revolution, had the title of a barony. Long. 7. 28. E. Lat. 48. 15. N.
RAREE, a town of Hindustan, on the sea-coast of the province of Bejapoor, seventeen miles north by west from Goa. Long. 73. 30. E. Lat- 15. 50. N.
RAREFACTION, in
Physics,
the act by which a body is rendered rare ; that is, brought to occupy more room, or appear under a larger bulk, without accession of any new matter. This is very frequently the effect of heat, as has long been universally known. In many cases, however, philosophers have attributed it to the action of a repulsive principle. But, from the numerous discoveries concerning the nature and properties of the electric fluid and fire, there is the greatest reason to believe that this repulsive principle is no other than elementary fire.
RASAY, one of the Western Islands or Hebrides, is about thirteen miles in length and two in breadth. It has plenty of limestone and freestone, feeds great numbers of black cattle, but has neither deers, hares, nor rabbits. The only appearance of a'harbour in Rasay is at Clachan Bay, where the proprietor of the island resides. Rasay presents a bold shore, which rises to the height of mountains ; and here the natives have with incredible labour formed many little cornfields and potato-grounds. These heights decrease at the southern extremity, where there are some farms and a good-looking country.
RAS EL KHYMA,a town of Arabia, OnthePersianGulf, situated on a sandy peninsula, the isthmus of which is defended by a battery, while the Sea-line is also fortified by batteries of one gun each at regular intervals. It has a suburb of bamboo huts, roofed wr ith date-tree leaves.
RASK, Erasmus, an eminent scholar and philologist, was born at Brendekild, in the island of Fyen, in the year 1784. He studied at the university of Copenhagen, and early distinguished himself by his singular talent for the acquisition of languages. In the year 1808, he was appointed assistant keeper of the University Library, and some years afterwards made professor of Literary History. In 1811, he published, in the Danish language, his Introduction to the Grammar of the Icelandic and other Ancient Northern Languages, the materials of which were entirely derived from the immense mass of manuscript and printed works which had been accumulated by his predecessors in the same field of research. This grammar appears to have given a fresh impulse to the study of the ancient northern languages, even in Germany. The reputation which Rask acquired by it recommended him to the Arna-Magnæan Institution, by which he was employed as editor of the Icelandic Lexicon of Biorne Haldorsen,
which had long remained in manuscript To this work, which appeared in 1814, Bishop Miiller contributed a preface, in which he pronounces a just eulogium on the talents and the spirit of research displayed by the youthful editor. About the same time, Rask, who had never been in Iceland, paid a visit to that country, where he remained from 1813 to 1815, during which time he made himself completely master of the language, and familiarized himself with the literature, manners, and customs of the natives. To the interest with which they inspired him, may probably be attributed the establishment at Copenhagen, early in 1816, of the Icelandic Literary Society, which was mainly instituted by his exertions, and of which he had the honour to be the first president.
Whilst thus employed, however, he was about to enter upon a more ample field pf enterprise. In October 1816, he left Denmark on a literary expedition, which had been fitted out for the double purpose of prosecuting inquiries into the languages of the East, and collecting manuscripts for the University Library at Copenhagen. The king of Denmark having liberally provided him with the requisite means, he proceeded first to Srveden, where he remained two years, in the course of which he made an excursion into Finland, for the purpose of studying the language of that country. Here he published, in Swedish, his Anglo-Saxon Grammar, in 1817 ; and during the same year there appeared at Copenhagen, in Danish, an Essay on the Origin of the Ancient Scandinavian or Icelandic Tongue, in which he traced the affinity of that remarkable idiom to the other European languages, particularly to the Latin and the Greek. In 1818, he published a second edition, very much improved, of his Icelandic Grammar, translated by himself into Swedish ; and in the course of tlle same year he also brought out the first complete editions of Snorro’s Edda, and Sæmund’s Edda, in the original text, along with Swedish translations of both Ed-das, tlle originals and the versions occupying each two volumes. From Stockholm he proceeded, in 1819, to St Petersburg, where he wrote in German an interesting paper on the Languages and Literature of Norway, Iceland, Sweden, and Finland, which was published in the sixth number of the ViennaJahrbucher. From Russia, which he traversed, he proceeded through Tartary into Persia, and resided for some time at Tauris, Teheran, Persepolis, and Shiraz. It may be mentioned here, as an instance of his remarkable facility in acquiring languages, that, in about six weeks, he made himself sufficiently master of the Persian to be able to converse freely in that language with the natives. In 1820, he embarked at Abuschekr, in the Persian Gulfj for Bombay, which he reached in safety ; and during his residence there he wrote, in English, a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the Zend Language, which he addressed to the governor, the Hon. Mountstuart Elphinstone, and which was afterwards published in the third volume of the Transactions of the Literary Society of Bombay. The same production, with corrections and additions, was afterwards deemed worthy of insertion in the Transactions of the Royal Asiatic Society. From Bombay he proceeded through India to Ceylon, where he arrived in 1822, and soon afterwards wrote, in English, a Dissertation respecting the best Method of expressing the Sounds of the Indian Languages in European Characters, which was printed in the Transactions of the Literary and Agricultural Society of Colombo. Professor Rask, having at length completed his researches on the scale prescribed, set out for Europe, and reached Copenhagen in the beginning of May 1823, after an absence of nearly seven years. He brought home with him a considerable collection of rare and curious oriental manuscripts, Persian, Zend, Pali, Cingalese, and others, which now enrich the university and royal libraries of the Danish capital.
Notwithstanding all his labours and exertions, this indefatigable scholar scarcely allowed himself an interval of repose. Between the period of his return from the East and that of his death, which occurred far too soon for the interests of philology, Professor Rask published in his native language a Spanish Grammar in 1824, an Italian Grammar and a Frisic Grammar in 1825, a Treatise respecting the Ancient Egyptian Chronology in 1827, the Ancient Jewish Chronology previous to Moses in 1828, and an Essay on Danish Orthography in the same year. He likewise edited an edition of Schneider’s Danish Grammar for the use of Englishmen in 1829, and superintended the English translation of his Anglo-Saxon Grammar in 1830. This last work supplies what had long been a desideratum in English literature. Before its appearance, persons whose taste might dispose them to investigate our early vernacular remains, had no guides to direct them, and each had to form for himself a Grammar and a Dictionary of the Saxon. Hickes’ was full of blunders, and in these Elstob, Lye, Manning, and others had religiously followed him, superadding their own contingents respectively. By the publication of Rask’s Saxon Grammar, however, we were to a certain degree freed from this lamentable state of things, and facilities were affordedfor the acquisition of the language, which previously had no existence. The attentive student will at once perceive the important Ughtwhichhe has thrown upon its principles, by wτ hat he has advanced regarding accentuation, in all which the soundness of his views is fully supported by the manuscripts. He has divided nouns into simple and complex, and adjectives into definite and indefinite ; a division which is new to us in this country, and, by its simplicity of arrangement, forms a striking contrast to the endless subdivisions, exceptions, and annotations of Hickes. But it is in the investigation of the verbs that Rask appears to the greatest advantage. His classification of them is simple and obvious ; nor can there be a better proof of his accuracy than the perfect order and regularity which it enables us to detect in numerous formations previously considered as irregular. His observations on prefixes and postfixes are written with less care, and he has also treated the important branch of syntax in too slight and perfunctory a manner ; omissions which excite some surprise, in a scholar possessing such an entire mastery over the Anglo-Saxon.
We must return to the author himself, however, one of whose last literary efforts we have thus incidentally noticed. In private life the character of Professor Rask was such as to command admiration and respect. His manners, though somewhat retiring, were mild and gentle, and his morals unimpeachable. His mode of living was simple in the extreme, and his temperance that of an anchoret. The habits of Study and application which he had acquired in his youth were never laid aside. In company he was diffident, and always expressed himself with modesty ; but when the subject involved any thing relative to his own history or pursuits, he evinced a reluctance to converse, which seemed to grow upon him with years, and almost amounted to a morbid sensibility. His facility in the acquisition of languages was extraordinary ; he appeared to gain a knowledge of them by a sort of intuition, and his mind seemed to recollect rather than to learn. In 1822, he was master of no less than twenty-five languages and dialects. His knowledge of English was extensive and correct. He spoke and wrote it with such fluency and precision, that Englishmen to whom he was introduced were accustomed to ask him how long he had been in England, considering that such an acquaintance could only be gained by a residence in the country where it was spoken. Risk, in his personal appearance, was thin and spare, but well made ; his habits of temperance, regularity, and exercise, had contributed to give him all the appearance of a healthy man, and he seemed destined to attain a ripe old age. He was capable of enduring much fatigue, and even the privation of necessary rest ; changes of climate seemed to produce no impression upon his constitution ;
the scorching sun of India, and the biting frosts of Iceland, were equally braved and disregarded. But, with all this apparent superiority to ordinary infirmities, he fell a victim to consumption, brought on, it is believed, by those habits of intense application, and abstinence from proper nutriment, to which we have already alluded ; and he died at that period of life (forty-eight) when the faculties of the human mind have little more than attained their maturity, leaving behind him a name that will not soon be forgotten.
The acquirements of Professor Rask were multifarious and extraordinary, and such as justly entitled him to our respect and admiration. There never perhaps existed any scholar whose study of language had been directed to a wider circle, and assuredly none who had made the structure of language so much an object of attention. He was the great comparative anatomist of philology; not building up theories out of scattered fragments, collected as it were by accident, but drawing his conclusions from the most profound and elaborate research, and, by comparison, comprehension, and exhaustion, initiating us into those curious inquiries which have for the most part been perfunctorily handled by the majority of critics. Not that Rask’s writings have enabled the world to form an accurate estimate of his extraordinary learning. To have written the best Icelandic, and the best Anglo-Saxon Grammar ; to have tracked, through Hebrew or Kieroglyphical records, the chronology of the Egyptian kings ; to have edited Eddas or Sagas, and carried off prizes for essays on this or the other limited inquiry ; all these constituted little compared to what this extraordinary man was capable of effecting, had it pleased God to prolong his life. He was one of the few men qualified to write on philology, with a sufficient knowledge of the subject in all its bearings ; who had seen with his own eyes, and heard with his own ears, the tribes and the tongues which overspread the surface of the globe ; who, if he had not girdled the whale earth, had at least explored those tracts in which so many nations were cradled ; and who, travelling throughout the East in quest of philological knowledge, carried with him a mind so well trained, and exercised, and cultivated, that nothing could be wasted upon it. Of this we have ample evidence furnished to us at every stage in his protracted expedition. His progress was like that of Fame in Virgil, continually gaining fresh accessions of knowledge, and increasing in intellectual stature, but, unlike the impersonation of the poet, never raising aloft his head so as to plunge it into the region of the clouds. His primary object was the collection of sufficient materials to serve as the basis of a most enlarged induction ; his next was to employ analysis or resolution in decomposing, separating, and classifying these materials, so as to render them disposable for the purposes of general investigation ; and his last, by synthetical reasoning, to lay a solid foundation for the science of philology, and to deduce those general laws of connection, resemblance, or filiation, which may be discovered in every branch of the great family of languages. He lived to accomplish the first, and he had even entered upon his analytical labours, whcn exhausted nature sunk under the toil, and the grave swallowed up the fruits of all his researches. Rask was no theorist ; and, if his life had happily been prolonged, he would have finally settled the question, which has long been agitated, viz. whether induction be really applicable as an instrument of investigation and discovery in the science of philology, (a.)
RASTADT, a city of the grand duchy of Baden, in Germany, the capital of a bailiwick of its own name. It is situated on tlle river Murg, just before that stream joins the Khine. There is a fine palace of the prince, now used as a college or gymnasium, a nunnery, an hospital, 568 houses, and 4400 inhabitants. Peace was made here in 1715 ; and in 1797 and 1798 a congress was held to negotiate a peace between the German empire and France, but it came to no pacific termination. It has some few small manufactures
of cloth, steel wares, hosiery, and linen goods. Long.
8. 3. 5.
E. Lat. 48. 50. 5. N.
RASTALL, John, a printer and miscellaneous writer, was born in London, probably about the end of the fifteenth century, and educated at Oxford. Returning from the university, he settled in the metropolis, and commenced printer, “ then esteemed,” says Wood, “ a profession fit for any scholar or ingenious man.” He married the sister of Sir Thomas More, with whom, we are told, he was very intimate, and whose writings he strenuously defended. From the title-page of one of his books, he appears to have lived in Cheapside, at the sign of the Mermaid. He died in the year 1536 ; and left two sons, William and John ; the first of whom became a judge in Queen Mary’s reign, and the other a justice of peace. This John Rastall, the subject of the present article, was a zealous Papist ; but Bale says that he changed his religion before his death. He wrote, 1.
Natura naturota.
This Pits calls a copious and ingenious comedy, describing Europe, Asia, and Africa ; with cuts. What sort of a comedy this was, it is not easy to conceive. Probably it is a cosmographical description, written in dialogue, and therefore styled a
comedy.
2. The Pas-tyme of the People ; the cronycles of diverse realmys, and most especially of the realm of England, brevely compiled and emprinted in Cheapesyde, at the sign of the mearmaid, next Pollysgate,
cum privilegio,
folio. 3.
Ecclesia Johan-nis RastoH,
1542, was one of the prohibited books in the reign of Henry VIII. 4.
Leyum Anylicanarum vocabula explicata,
French and Latin, London, 1567, 8vo ; and some other works.
RASTRICK, a township of the parish of Halifax, in the west riding of Yorkshire and wapentake of Morley, 192 miles from London. It has risen into importance during the last thirty years, from the great extension of its woollen trade. The population amounted in 1801 to 2053, in 1811 to 2442, in 1821 to 2796, and in 1831 to 3021.
RAT. See Mammalia.
R at Island,
the small detached part of the island of Lundy, off the north coast of Devon.
RATAFIA, a fine spirituous liquor, prepared from the kernels and other parts of several kinds of fruits, particularly cherries and apricots. Ratafia of cherries is prepared by bruising the cherries, and putting them into a vessel wherein brandy has long been kept ; then adding to them the kernels of cherries, with strawberries, sugar, cinnamon, white pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and to twenty pounds of cherries ten quarts of brandy. The vessel is left open ten or twelve days, and then stopped close for two months before it be tapped. Ratafia of apricots is prepared in two ways, namely, either by boiling the apricots in white wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with sugar, cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots, infusing the whole for eight or ten days, then straining the liquor, and putting it up for use ; or by infusing the apricots, cut in pieces, in brandy, for a day or two, passing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the usual ingredients.
RATCH, or Rash, in clock-work, a sort of wheel having twelve fangs, which serve to lift up the detents every hour, and make the clock strike.
RATCHETS, in a watch, are the small teeth at the bottom of the fusee or barrel, which stops it in winding up.
RATES, in the navy, mean the orders or classes into which the ships of war are divided, according to their force and magnitude.
Ships of the first rate mount a hundred guns, having forty-two pounders on the lower deck, twenty-four pounders on the middle deck, twelve-pounders on the upper deck, and six-pounders on the quarter-deck and forecastle. They are manned with 850 men, including officers, seamen, marines, and servants.
Ships of the second rate carry ninety guns upon three
decks, of which those on the lower battery are thirty-two-pounders ; those on the middle eighteen-pounders ; on the upper deck twelve-pounders ; and those on the quarter-deck six-pounders, which usually amount to four or six. Their complement of men is 750, in which there are six lieutenants, four master’s mates, twenty-four midshipmen, and four surgeon’s mates, fourteen quarter-masters and their mates, eight boatswain’s mates and yeomen, six gunner’s mates and yeomen, with twenty-two quarter-gunners, two carpenter’s mates with ten assistants, and one steward and steward’s mate.
Ships of the third rate carry from sixty-four to eighty cannon, which are thirty-two, eighteen, and nine-pounders. The eighty-gun ships, however, begin to grow out of repute, and to give way to those of seventy-four, seventy, &c. which have only two whole batteries ; whereas the former have three, with twenty-eight guns planted on each, the cannon of their upper deck being the same as those on the quarter-deck and forecastle of the latter, which are nine-pounders. The complement in a seventy-four is 650, and in a sixty-four 500 men ; these have in peace four lieutenants, but in war five, and, when an admiral is aboard, six. They have also three master’s mates, sixteen midshipmen, three surgeon’s mates, ten quarter-masters and their mates, six boatswain’s mates and yeomen, four gunner’s mates and yeomen, with eighteen quarter-gunners, Onecarpenterismate with eight assistants, and one steward and steward’s mate under the purser.
Ships of the fourth rate mount from sixty to fifty guns, upon two decks and the quarter-deck. The lower tier is composed of twenty-four pounders, the upper tier of twelve-pounders, and the cannon on the quarter deck and forecastle are six-pounders. The complement of a fifty-gun ship is 350 men, in which there are three lieutenants, two master’s mates, ten midshipmen, two surgeon’s mates, eight quartermasters and their mates, four boatswain’s mates and yeomen, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with twelve quarter-gunners, one carpenter’s mate and six assistants, a steward and steward’s mate.
All vessels of war under the fourth rate are usually comprehended under the general name of
frigates,
and never appear in the line of battle. They are divided into the fifth and sixth rates ; the former mounting from forty to thirty-two guns, and the latter from twenty-eight to twenty. The largest of the fifth rate have two decks of cannon, the lower battery being of eighteen-pounders, and that of the upper deck of nine-pounders ; but those of thirty-six and thirty-two guns have one complete deck of guns, mounting twelve-pounders, besides the quarter-deck and forecastle, which carry six-pounders. The complement of a ship of forty-four guns is 280 men, and that of a frigate of thirty-six guns 240 men. The first has three and the second two lieutenants ; and both have two master’s mates, six midshipmen, two surgeon’s mates, six quarter-masters and their mates, two boatswain’s mates and one yeoman, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with ten or eleven quarter-gunners, and one purser’s steward.
Frigates of the sixth rate carry nine-pounders, those of twenty guns having three-pounders on their quarter-deck, with 200 men for their complement ; and those of twenty-four 160 men. The former has two lieutenants, the latter one ; and both have two master’s mates, four midshipmen, one surgeon’s mate, four quarter-masters and their mates, one boatswain’s mate and one yeoman, one gunner’s mate and one yeoman, with six or seven quarter-gunners, and one purser’s steward.
The sloops of war carry from eight to eighteen cannon, the largest of which have six-pounders ; and the smallest, that is, those of eight or ten guns, four-pounders. Their officers are generally the same as in the sixth rates, with little variation; and their complements of men vary from 60
to 120, in proportion to their force or magnitude. Bomb-vessels are on the same establishment as sloops ; but fireships and hospital-ships are on that of fifth rates.
RATEEN, or Ratten, in commerce, a thick woollen stuff, quilled, and woven in a loom with four treddles, like serges and other stuffs that have the whale or quilling. There are some rateens dressed and prepared like cloths ; others left simply in the hair, and others where the hair or knap is frized. Rateens are chiefly manufactured in France, Holland, and Italy, and are mostly used in linings. The frize is a sort of coarse rateen, and the drugget is a rateen half linen half woollen.
RATHENAU,
a
city of Prussia, in the province of Potsdam, and circle of West Havell. It stands on the river Havell, is surrounded with w’alls, and has a good marketplace, in which there is a statue of the elector Frederick William, placed to commemorate a victory gained by him near this place over tlle Swedes in the year 1675. It contains 620 houses, and about 4500 inhabitants.
RATIO, in
Arithmetic
and
Geometry,
is that relation of homogeneous things which determines the quantity of one from the quantity of another, without the intervention of a third.
The numbers, lines, or quantities, A and B, being proposed, their relation one to another may be considered under one or other of these two heads : 1. How much A exceeds B, or B exceeds A ; w, hich is found by taking A from B, or B from A, and is called
arithmetical reason
or
rαtw. 
2. How many times, or parts of a time, A contains B, or B contains A ; which is called
geometrical reason
or
ratio, 
or, as Euclid defines it, the
mutual habitude,
or
respect,
of two magnitudes of the same kind, according to quantity, that is, llow often the one contains or is contained in the other ; and this is found by dividing A by B, or B by A. But observe, that that quantity which is referred to another quantity is called the
antecedent t>f the ratio ;
and that to which the other is referred is called the
consequent of the ratio.
In the ratio of A to B, A is the antecedent, and B the consequent. Therefore any quantity as antecedent, divided by any quantity as a consequent, gives the ratio of that antecedent to the consequent.
Thus the ratio of A to B is =, but the ratio of B to A is
B
B    12
— ; and, in numbers, the ratio of 12 to 4 is — = 3, or tri-A    ⅛
4    1
ple ; but the ratio of 4 to 12 is — = -, or subtriple.
1 <~    t)
And here observe, that the quantities thus compared must be of the same kind ; that is, such as by multiplication may be made the one to exceed the other, or as these quantities are said to have a ratio between them, which, being multiplied, may be made to exceed one another. Thus a line, how short soever, may be multiplied, that is, produced so as to exceed any given right line ; and consequently these may be compared together, and the ratio expressed. But as a line can never, by any multiplication whatever, be made to have breadth, that is, to be equal to a superficies, however small, so these can never be compared together, and consequently have no ratio or respect to one another, according to quantity ; that is, how often the one contains or is contained in the other.
RATION, in an army, a portion of ammunition, bread, drink, and forage, distributed to each soldier for his daily subsistence. The horse have rations of hay and oats when they cannot go out to forage.
RATIONALE, a solution or account of the principles of some opinion, action, hypothesis, or phenomenon.
RATIOS of musical intervals. See articles Mosio and Temperament.
RATISBON, or, as called by the Germans, Reosnb-
burg, a city of the modern kingdom of Bavaria, the capital of the circle of that name. This city in ancient times, though under the protection of the elector of Bavaria, was considered as an imperial city, and the diets of the German empire were Irequently held within it. It was then the see of an archbishop, and remarkable for its zealous adherence to the Catholic church. It was the scene of one of the most bloody conflicts daring the Thirty Years’ War, when the army of the imperial general Wallenstein was intrenched before it, and the Swedish monarch Gustavus Adolphus made repeated but ultimately unsuccessful attempts to storm the works, and lost so many men that he was compelled to retreat. It suffered much during the war between the French and Austrians in 1809.
Ratisbon was a place of much greater relative importance in former times than it is at present, having then the exclusive right to all the trade by the river Danube, both upwards as far as Ulm, and downwards as far as Vienna.
The city stands on the river Danube, at the spot where the river Regen, from which its German name is derived, falls into that great stream. The bridge over the Danube connects the several parts of the city. It is still in an imperfect degree fortified, but is totally indefensible against any armed force. The buildings are of antique models, particularly the ancient council-house, in which the representatives of all the states of Germany were accustomed to assemble. The cathedral is a large Gothic building ; as are the church of St Emeran and the Lutheran church of the Holy Trinity, the latter of which was the college of the Jesuits till the abolition of the order.
The population, which in 1811 amounted to 18,843 persons, has much increased, and was found in 1837 to be 26,550. Of these, about one third are Lutherans ; and two thirds, comprehending almost the whole of the labouring classes, are Roman Catholics. The former party have a gymnasium, and the latter a lyceum. There is a learned society, who have a botanical garden and a respectable library, with a museum of mathematical and philosophical instruments, and a picture-gallery. There are manufactures of morocco leather, many tanneries, soap-makers, wax and tallow chandlers, with large breweries and distilleries. On the banks of the Danube are some establishments for building barques and boats for navigating that river. The transit trade between eastern and western Germany gives employment to several respectable mercantile houses. A project, now considerably advanced, gives hope to the inhabitants of this city of a much greater portion of transit commerce. The Royal Bavarian Canal is hastening to its completion, and will open a communication by water between the Rhine and the Danube, the whole length being within the dominions of Bavaria. It commences at the river Mayn, which empties itself into the Rhine, and will terminate in the Danube, near this city. It is hoped that the timber of Bavaria will thus find a market in Hungary, and the surplus corn of that kingdom a constant vent on the banks of the Rhine, especially in Holland.
RATLINES, or, as the sailors call them,
ratlins,
those lines which make the ladder-steps to go up the shrouds and pattocks, hence called the
ratlins of the shrouds.
RATTIBOR, a city, the capitιd of a circle of the same name, in the Prussian government of Oppeln, in Silesia. It stands on the left bank of the Oder, is surrounded with walls, and contains six Catholic and one Lutheran church, three hospitals, 4300 houses, and 4100 inhabitants. It has considerable trade in linen and woollen goods, in hosiery, and in timber, and has several distilleries and breweries.
R ATTOLAW, a seaport of Hindustan, in the province of Gujerat, and gulf of Cambay, is situated on a navigable river. It was ceded to the East India Company by the Guicowar, tile Mahratta chief, in 1803. It is forty-four
miles south-west from the city of Cambay. Long. 72. 15. E. Lat. 22. 3. N.
RAUJESHY, a district in Bengal, situated principally between the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth degrees of north latitude. It is bounded on the north by Dinagepoor and Mymunsingh ; on tlle south by Birbhoom and Kishenagur ; on the east by Dacca, Jelalpoor, and Mymunsingh ; and on the west by Monghir and Birbhoom. It is the most unwieldy zemindary in Bengal, comprehending an area of 12,909 square miles, and is intersected in its whole length by the Ganges and its lesser branches, with many navigable rivers and fertilizing streams. In answer to the inquiries of the Marquis Wellesley in the year 1801, the population was returned at 1.500,000.
RAUKOKE, one of the Kurile Islands, which is small and lofty, with a rocky shore.
RAUN, a town of some strength, situated upon the river Miza, and remarkable for a bloody skirmish between the Prussians and Austrians, in August 1744. The king of Prussia, intending to get possession of Beraun, sent thither six battalions, with eight cannon, and 800 hussars ; but General Festititz being there with a great party of his corps, and M. Luchesi with 1000 horse, they not only repulsed the Prussians, but attacked them in their turn, and, after a warm dispute, obliged them to retire with considerable loss.
RAVA, a town of Asiatic Turkey, situated on the Euphrates, about half-way between Kerkesieh and Anna. It contains about 200 houses in the midst of extensive ruins ; but many of these houses are uninhabited. On the opposite side of the river are the ruins of a castle, on the summit of a rock.
RAVAILLIAC, or Ravaillac, François, the assassin of Henry IV. of France, was a native of Angoulême, and, at the time of his execution, about thirty-two years of age. Ravaillac was the son of parents who lived upon alms. His father was one of those interior retainers of the law to whom the vulgar give the name of pettifoggers, and his son had been bred up in the same line. The latter had set up a claim to an estate, but the cause went against him ; and this disappointment affected his mind deeply. He afterwards taught a school, and, as he himself said, received charitable gifts, though but of very small value, from the parents of those whom he taught. Yet his distress was so great that he had much ado to live. When he was seized for the murder of the king, he was very loosely guarded ; and all were permitted to speak with him who pleased. He was removed next day from the house of Espernon to the Conciergerie, the proper prison of the parliament of Paris. When he was first interrogated, he answered with great boldness, that he had done it, and would do it if it were to be done again. When he was told that the king, though dangerously wounded, was living, and might recover, he said that he had struck him home, and that he was sure he was dead. In his subsequent examinations he owned that he had long had an intention to kill the king, because he suffered two religions in his kingdom ; and that he endeavoured to obtain an audience of him, in order to admonish him. He also said that he understood the king’s great armament to be against the pope ; and that, in his opinion, to make war against the pope was to make war against God. We have no distinct account of the last three examinations ; but he is said to have persisted in the most solemn asseverations that he had no accomplices, and that nobody had persuaded him to the fact. He appeared surprised at nothing so much as at the universal abhorrence of the people, which, it seems, he did not expect. They were forced to guard him strictly from his fellow-prisoners, who would otherwise have murdered him. The butchers of Paris desired to have him put into their hands, affirming that they would flay him alive, and that he should still live twelve days. When he was put to the torture, he broke out into
horrid execrations, and always insisted that he did the fact from his own motive, and that he could accuse nobody. On the day of his execution, after he had made the
amende
before the church of Nôtre Dame, he was carried to the Grève ; and, being placed upon a scaffold, was tied to a wooden engine in the shape of a St Andrew’s cross. The knife with which he did the murder being fastened in his right hand, it was first burned in a slow fire ; then the fleshy parts of his body were torn with red-hot pincers, and melted lead, oil, pitch, and rosin poured into the wounds. The people refused to pray for him ; and when, according to the sentence that had been pronounced upon him, he came to be dragged to pieces by four horses, one of those that were brought appearing to be but weak, a spectator offered his own, with which the criminal was much moved. He was very earnest for absolution, which his confessor refused, unless he would reveal his accomplices. “ Give it me,” said he, “ upon condition that I have told the truth ;” which the priest eventually did. His body was so robust that it resisted the force of tbe horses ; and the executioner was at length obliged to cut him into quarters, which the people dragged through the streets. Such was the miserable fate of this fanatical assassin, who deprived France of one of her best and greatest kings. He was believed by the populace to have been set on by the Jesuits, although, whilst suffering the most horrible torments, he declared that he had no accomplices, and had done the deed from motives of his own.
RAVELIN, in
Fortflcation,
was anciently a flat bastion placed in the middle of a curtain ; but it is now a detached work, composed only of two faces, which form a salient angle without any flanks, and are raised before the counterscarp of the place. See Fortification.
RAVENNA, a delegation of the States of the Church, in Italy, in the northern part of the ancient Romagna. It is 935 square miles in extent, and contains four cities, eight market-towns, many villages, and 123,760 inhabitants. It is a level district on the sea-coast, with numerous saline lakes, but towards the west there are some gentle undulations. It is moderately fertile, and is drained by the rivers La-mone, Lanterno, and their tributary streams. The capital is the city of the same name, which is of high antiquity. It was formerly on the sea-shore, but, by the recession of the water, is now three miles from it. It is in a marshy situation, surrounded by walls of no great strength. It is the see of a bishop, has a cathedral, twenty-one parish churches, twelve monasteries, five nunneries, a public library, an hospital, and some schools. It contains in the city 16,000 inhabitants, but, including the suburbs and some adjacent villages, the population amounts to 23,930. It was formerly the capital of the kingdom of the Ostrogoths, and, in later times, of an exarchate. There are now to be seen the remains of some old Gothic castles. Long. 12. 5.31. E. Lat. 44. 25. 5. N.
RA VENSBURG, a city of the kingdom of Wirtemberg1 in tlle circle of the Danube, and the capital of a bailiwick of the same name. It stands on the river Schussen, and is surrounded with walls, defended by several ancient towers. It contains 870 houses, with 3760 inhabitants, one half Catholics and the other Protestants. It has several sawmills, and manufactories of cottons, hosiery, iron and wood ware ; and it grows good wine. Long. 9.32. E. Lat. 47.46. 55. N.
RAVEY, the ancient Hydraotes, a celebrated river of Hindustan, and the third river of the Punjab. It rises in the eastern mountains of Cashmere, near a famous place of Hindu worship, not far from the sources of tlle Sutulege, the Chunaub, and the Beyah rivers. It afterwards runs in a south-westerly direction until it passes the city of Lahore, sixty miles above which it is 120 yards broad, and extremely rapid, yet navigable during the rains for boats of a considerable size. It flows in the same direction after passing the city of Lahore, and it is joined about twenty-eight miles above the city of Moultan by the Jhylum and the Chunaub rivers, forming a stream in some places several miles in breadth, and scarcely inferior to the Indus itself.· Immediately after their junction it is one mile, one furlong, and eighty-five yards, but lower down the stream is contracted in its breadth to less than 350 yards. Seventy miles below Moultan the Ravey joins the Indus after a course, including its windings, of 500 miles. The water is light and wholesome.
RAVILPANDY, a large and populous town of Hindustan, in the district of tlle Punjab, situated about half way between the Indus and the Hydaspes rivers. The houses are flat-roofed, and the surrounding country is open and well cultivated. This place was visited by Mr Elphinstone in 1809. It belonged to Jewun Sing, a Sikh chief.
RAVREE, a town of Hindustan, in the Western Ghauts, and province of Bejapoor. It was the first stronghold seized by Sevajee, the great founder of the Mahratta power. It is forty-five miles south-south-west from Poonah. Long. 73. 32. E. Lat. 18. 2. N.
RAWAAD, a small town of Hindustan, in the province of Lahore, in the Sikh territories, 120 miles north-west from the city of Lahore. Long. 72. 12. E. Lat. 33. 5. N.
RAWAK Isle, a small island in the Eastern Seas, off the north coast of Waygiou, with which it forms a harbour. The channel is here a mile broad, with a depth of from ten to fifteen fathoms, and a mud bottom. Sago, in cakes, is sold here in large quantities. Fish and turtle may also be had. Long. 131. 15. E. Lat. O. 3. N.
RAWANKRADi
a celebrated lake in the mountains of Thibet, on the north of the great Himalayah range. It is the source of the river Sutulege, and is connected with the lake Mansarowar. The lake is long and narrow, and is divided by an island. It derives its supplies from several small rivers that flow from the mountains, and also from the melting of the snows. The situation is about the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and near it may be seen Mount Cailas, a well-known scene of Hindu fable, covered with perpetual snow.
RA WCLIFFE, a town of the west riding of Yorkshire, in the parish of Snaith, and wapentake of Osgoldcross, 176 miles from London. It has some trade by the river Aire, which is navigable beyond it. The population amounted in 1801 to 920, in 1811 to 1143, in 1821 to 1496, and in 1831 to 1450.
RAWICZ, or Rawitsch, a city of the Prussian province of Posen, in the circle of Kobben. It is surrounded with walls, is well built and paved, and, including the suburbs, contains 1100 houses, with 8640 inhabitants, who are occupied in making linen, woollen, and cotton goods, mostly by machinery, and in tanning and currying leather. Of the inhabitants, 1500 are Jews.
RAY, John, a celebrated naturalist, and the son of Mr Roger Ray, a blacksmith, was born at Black Notly, in Essex, in 1628. He received the rudiments of learning at the grammar-school of Braintree ; and in 1644 was admitted into Catharine Hall, Cambridge, whence he afterwards removed to Trinity College in that university. He took the degree of master of arts, and became at length a senior fellow of the college ; but his intense application to his studies having injured his health, he was obliged at his leisure hours to exercise himself by riding or walking in the fields, which led him to the study of plants. He noted from Johnson, Parkinson, and the
Phytologia Britannica, 
the places where curious plants grew ; and in 1658 he rode from Cambridge to the city of Chester, whence he proceeded to North Wales, visiting many places, and amongst others the famous hill of Snowdon, and returning by Shrewsbury and Gloucester. In 1660 he published his
Catalogus Plantarum circa Cnntabrigiam nascentium,
and the same
year he was ordained deacon and priest. In 1661 he accompanied Mr Francis Willoughby and others, in search of plants and other natural curiosities, to the north of England and Scotland ; and the next year he made a western tour from Chester, and through Wales, to Cornwall, Devonshire, Dorsetshire, Hampshire, Wiltshire, and other counties. He afterwards travelled with Mr Willoughby and other gentlemen through Holland, Germany, Italy, France, and other foreign parts, made several tours in England, and was admitted fellow of the Royal Society. In 1672 his friend Mr Willoughby died, in the thirty-seventh year of his age, at Middleton Hall, his seat at Yorkshire, to the infinite and unspeakable loss and grief of Mr Ray himself, his friends, and all good men. As there existed the closest and most sincere friendship between Mr Willoughby and Mr Ray from the time of their being fellow-students, Mr Willoughby not only confided in Mr Ray in his lifetime, but also at lτis death ; for he made him one of the executors of his will, and charged him with the education of his sons, Francis and Thomas, leaving him at the same time an annuity of L.60 per annum. The eldest of these young gentlemen not being four years of age, Mr Ray, as a faithful trustee, undertook their instruction, and for their use compiled his
Nomenclator Classicus,
which was published the same year. Francis, the eldest, dying before he became of age, the younger became Lord Middleton. Not many months after the death of Mr Willoughby, Mr Ray lost another of his best friends, Bishop Wilkins, whom he visited in London on the 18th of November 1672, and found almost expiring from a total suppression of urine. As it is natural for the mind, when hurt in one part, to seek relief in another, so Mr Ray, having lost some of his best friends, and being in a manner left destitute, conceived thoughts of marriage ; and, accordingly, in June 1673, he espoused a gentlewoman of about twenty years of age, the daughter of Mr Oakley of Launton, in Oxfordshire. Towards the end of this year came forth his Observations made in foreign countries, to which was added, his
Catalogus StirpiUm in exteris Regionibus observatarum ;
and about 
tlle
same time appeared his Collection of unusual or local English words, which he had made in his travels through the counties of England. After having published many books upon subjects foreign to his profession, he at length resolved to appear in the character of divine, as well as in that of natural philosopher; and with this view he published his excellent demonstration of the being and attributes of God, entitled The Wisdom of God manifested in the Works of the Creation, 1697, 8vo. The rudiments of this work were read in some college lectures ; and another collection of the same kind he enlarged and published under the title of Three Physico-Iheological Discourses concerning the Chaos, Deluge, and Dissolution of the World, 1692, in 8vo. Ray died in 1705. He was modest, affable, and communicative, and distinguished by his probity, charity, sobriety, and piety. He wrote a great number of works, the principal of which, besides those already mentioned, are, 1.
Catalogus Plantarum Angliœ ;
2.
Dictionariolum Trilingue secundum locos communes ;
3.
Historia Plantarum, Species hactenus editas, aliasque insuper multas noviter inventas et descriptas complectens,
three vols. ; 4.
Methodus Plantarum nova, cum Tabulis,
8vo, and several other works on plants ; 5.
Synopsis Methodica Animalium Quadrupedum et Serpentini generis,
8vo ; 6.
Synopsis Methodica Avium et Piscium ;
7.
Historia Insectorum, opus posthumum ;
8.
Methodus Insectarum ;
9. Philosophical Letters.
RAYNAL, William Thomas, better known as the Abbé Raynal1 was born about the year 1712, and having received his education amongst the celebrated order of the Jesuits, became one of their number. Their value and excellence chiefly consisted in assigning to each member his proper employment. Amongst them Raynal acquired a taste for literature and science ; and by them he was afterwards expelled, no doubt on account of his impiety. Soon after this event he justified his expulsion by associating with Voltaire, D’Alembert, and Diderot, who employed him to furnish the articles on theology for the
Encycfa-pedie ;
but having no relish, and probably as little qualification, for such work, he devolved it on the Abbe Yvon, whom Barruel allows to have been an inoffensive and upright man.
The first work of Raynal, which is justly regarded as an eminent performance, is his Political and Philosophical History of the European Settlements in the East and West Indies. The style of this work is rambling but animated ; it contains many just reflections both of a political and philosophical nature, intermixed, however, with much vague and declamatory speculation. It has been translated into every European language. This performance, we believe, was followed by a small tract in the year 1780, entitled the Revolution of America, in which he pleaded the cause of the colonists with much zeal, censured the conduct of the British government, and discovered some acquaintance with the principles of the different factions ; circumstances which induced a belief that he had been furnished with materials by those who knew the merits of the dispute much better than any foreigner could reasonably be supposed to do.
The French government instituted a prosecution against him on account of his history of tlle East and West Indies; but with so little severity was it conducted, that sufficient time was allowed him to retire to the dominions of his Prussian majesty, by whom he was protected, ,'notwithstanding he had treated the character of that sovereign with very little ceremony. Even the most despotic princes showed him much kindness, although he always animadverted without reserve on their conduct ; and he even lived in the good graces of the Empress of Russia. At one period the British House of Commons showed him a very singular mark of respect. The speaker having been informed that Raynal was a spectator in the gallery, public business was instantly suspended, and the stranger was conducted to a more honourable situation. But when a friend of Dr Johnson’s asked him respecting the same personage, “ Will you give me leave, doctor, to introduce to you the Abbé Ray-nal ?” he turned on his heel, and said, “ No, sir.”
A love of liberty was the principal trait in RaynaPs character, of which he gave no proper or accurate definition in his earlier writings ; but when he beheld the abuse of liberty in the progress of the French Revolution, he nobly attempted to retrieve his errors. In the month of May 1791, he addressed to the Constituent Assembly an eloquent, argumentative, and impressive letter, in which he proved that it was not the business of the assembly to abolish every ancient institution; that the genius of the French people is such, that they never can be happy or prosperous except under a well-regulated monarchical government; and that, if they wished not the nation to fall under the worst kind of despotism, they would increase the power of the king.
Besides the works already mentioned, he was the author of a History of the Parliament of England ; a History of the Stadtholderate ; the History of the Divorce of Catharine of Aragon by Henry VIII. ; and a History of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, in four volumes. He was deprived of all his property during the Revolution, and died in poverty in the month of March 1796, in the eighty-fourth year of his age.
Ray, in
Optics,
a beam of light emitted from a radiant or luminous body. See Optics.
RAYLEIGH, a town of the county of Essex, in the hundred of Rochford, thirty-five miles from London. It stands on a creek of the Thames called Hadley Bay, in consequence of which it has a good trade in corn. The popu-
Iation amounted in 1801 to 897, in 1811 to 1131, in 1821 to 1203, and in 1831 to 1339.
RAYPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the Sikh territories, and province of Lahore, on the banks of the Beyah and Hydaspes. It is celebrated as the birthplace of Nanac, the founder of the Sikhs.
RAYSINGPOOR, a small village of Hindustan, in the Gujerat peninsula, near the Gulf of Cutch. It is situated on the banks of the Phooljee river, and in its vicinity are gardens in which cardamums are raised.
RAYUN, a town of Persia, in the province of Kerman, situated at the foot of lofty mountains, and surrounded by numerous gardens.
RE, an island on the coast of France, in the department of La V endée, and the arrondissement of Rochelle. It stands about seven miles from the mainland, has a very irregular shape, is eleven miles in length, and in the widest part three miles in breadth. The chief town is St Martins, which has 3000 inhabitants, and is defended by a strong citadel. The soil is fertile, yielding abundance of grapes, which are mostly used to make brandy ; and on the shore much salt is made. There are two other towns, called La Flotte and Ars, of more than 3000 inhabitants each ; and the whole population of the island amounts to 18,540. It was attacked by the English in the reign of Charles I., after the Duke of Buckingham’s unsuccessful attempt to relieve Rochelle in 1627, but was able to resist. Long. 1. 33. 25. E. Lat. 46. 14. 47. N.
Re, in
Grammar,
an inseparable particle prefixed to the beginning of words, to double or otherwise modify their meaning ; as in re-action, re-move, re-export, and tlle like.
RE-ACTION, in
Physiology,
is the resistance made by all bodies to the action or impulse of others which endeavour to change their state, whether of motion or rest.
READING, the art of delivering written language with propriety, force, and elegance.
“ We must not judge so unfavourably of eloquence or good reading,” says Fénélon, “ as to reckon it only a frivolous art, that a declaimer uses to impose upon the weak imagination of the multitude, and to serve his own ends. It is a very serious art, designed to instruct people ; to suppress their passions and reform their manners ; to support the laws, direct public councils, and to make men good and happy.”
Reason and experience equally demonstrate, that delivery in reading ought to be less animated than in interested speaking. In every exercise of the faculty of speech, and those expressions of countenance and gesture with which it is generally attended, we may be considered as being always in one of the two following situations : First, delivering our bosom sentiments on circumstances which relate to ourselves or others ; or, secondly, repeating something that was spoken on a certain occasion for the amusement or information of an auditor. Now, if we observe the deliveries natural to these two situations, we shall find, that the first may be accompanied with every degree of expression which can manifest itself in us, from the lowest of sympathy to the most violent and energetic of the superior passions; whilst the latter, from the speaker’s chief business being to repeat what he heard with accuracy, discovers only a faint imitation of those signs of the emotions which we suppose agitated him from whom the words were first borrowed. The use and necessity of this difference of manner is evident ; and if we are attentive to these natural signs of expression, we shall find them conforming with the greatest nicety to the slightest and most minute movements of the breast.
This repetition of another’s words might be supposed to pass through the mouth of a second or third person ; and in these cases, since they were not ear and eye witnesses of him who first spoke them, their manner of delivery would want the advantage necessarily arising from an immediate idea of the original one ; hence, for the reason stated, this would be of still less lively representation than that of the first repeater. But as, from a daily observation of every variety of speech and its associated signs of emotion, mankind soon become pretty well acquainted with them, and this in different degrees, according to their discernment, sensibility, &c. experience shows us that these latter repeaters, as we call them, might conceive and employ a manner of delivery which, though less characteristic perhaps, would βn the whole be noways inferior to the first, as to the common natural expression proper for their situation. It appears, therefore, that repeaters of every degree may be esteemed upon a level as to animation, and that our twofold distinction above specified contains accurately enough the whole variety of ordinary delivery. We say ordinary, because there is another very peculiar kind of delivery sometimes used in the person of a repeater, and of which it will in this place be necessary to take some notice. What we mean here is mimicry ; an accomplishment which, when perfectly and properly displayed, never fails of yielding a high degree of pleasure. But since this pleasure chiefly results from the principle of imitation respecting manner, and not from the purport of the matter communicated ; and since, comparatively speaking, it is only attainable by few persons, and practised only on j>articular occasions ; upon these accounts it must be refused a place amongst the modes of useful delivery taught us by nature, and must be esteemed a qualification purely anomalous.
These distinctions with regard to a speaker’s situation of mind being premised, let us see to which of them an author and his reader may mest properly be referred, and how they are circumstanced with regard to one another.
The matter of all books is, either what the author says in his own person, or an acknowledged recital of the words of others ; and hence an author may be esteemed both an original speaker and a repeater, according as what he writes is of the first or second kind. Now a reader must be supposed either actually to personate the author, or one whose office is barely to communicate what he has said to an auditor. But in the first of these suppositions he would, in the delivery of what was the author’s own, evidently commence mimic ; which being, as above observed, a character not generally acknowledged in this department, ought to be rejected as on the whole improper. The other supposition therefore must be accounted right ; and then, as to the whole matter of tlle book, the reader is found to be exactly in the situation of a repeater, save that he takes what he delivers from the page before him instead of his memory. It follows, then, in proof of our initial proposition, that if we are directed by nature and propriety, the manner of our delivery in reading ought to be inferior in warmth and energy to what we should use, were the language the spontaneous effusion of our own hearts in the circumstances of those out of whose mouths it is supposed to proceed.
Evident as the purport of this reasoning is, it has not so much as been glanced at by the writers on the subject we are now entered upon, or any of its kindred ones ; which has occasioned a manifest want of accuracy in several of their rules and observations. Amongst the rest, this precept has long been reverberated from author to author as a perfect standard for propriety in reading : “ Deliver yourselves in the same manner you would do, were the matter your own original sentiments uttered directly from thc heart.” As all kinds of delivery must have many things in common, the rule will in many articles be undoubtedly right ; but, from what has been said above, it must as certainly be faulty in respect to several others ; as it is evident nature never confounds by like signs two things so very different as a copy and an original, an emanation darted immediately from the sun, and its weaker appearance in the lunar reflection.
Reading, a borough and market town of Berkshire,
in the hundred of its own name, thirty-eight miles from London, on the high road to Bath and Bristol. It is situated on the right bank of the Thames, where it is joined by the Kennet, in a fine situation rising gradually from the river, and is one of the most cheerful and well-built towns of its size in England. It has three parish churches, and various chapels for dissenters. The county sessions are held at it, and there is a house of correction. The chief trade is what is carried on by the rivers, which unite here, and into which several canals lead. There are some manufactures Qf silk ribbons, of sail-cloth, and blanketing ; and some barge-building. It has a corporation, consisting of a mayor, three aldermen, and seventeen councillors, and returns two members to the House of Commons. There are markets on Wednesday and on Saturday, which are well supplied , and the place is well situated for the flour trade. The population amounted in 1801 to 9742, in 1811 to 10,788, in 1821 to 12,867, and in 1831 to 15,595.
RE-AG GRAVATION, in the Roman ecclesiastical law, the last monitory, published after three admonitions, and before the final excommunication. Previous to fulminating the last excommunication, they publish an aggravation and a re-aggravation. Fevret observes, that in France the minister is not allowed to come to re-aggravation, without the permission of the bishop or official, as well as that of the lay judge.
REALISTS, a sect of scholastic philosophers formed in opposition to the Nominalists. Under the realists are included the Scotists, Thomists, and all excepting the followers of Ocham. Their distinguishing tenet is, that uni-versals are realities, and have an actual existence out of idea or imagination, or, as they express it in the schools, a
parte rei ;
whereas the nominalists contend that they exist only in the mind, and are merely ideas, or manners of conceiving things. Odo, or Oudard, a native of Orleans, afterwards abbot of St Martin de Tournay, was the chief of the sect of the Realists. He wrote three books of dialectics, in which, on the principles of Boethius and the ancients, he maintained that the object of that art was things, not words, and hence the sect took its rise and name.
REALITY, in the schools, a diminutive of
res,
thing, was first used by the Scotists, to denote a thing which may exist of itself ; or which has a full and absolute being of itself, and is not considered as a part of any other.
REALM, a country which gives its head or governor the denomination of a
hing.
RE-ANIMATION means the reviving or restoring to life those w ho are apparently dead. Sudden death is dreaded by every human being, and it is one of those evils against which the Church of England prays in her litany. Accidents, however, cannot always be prevented ; but, after they have happened, it is often possible to prevent their effects. By the establishment of what has with great propriety been called the
Humane Society,
this has been abundantly proved ; for, in the course of twelve years immediately after its institution, it was the means of saving the lives of 850 persons, who otherwise would in all human probability have been lost to the community. Since that period it has saved many more ; and various persons, even in the most distant parts of the kingdom, have done the same by following the directions prescribed. To preserve one human being from premature death, we must consider as of the utmost consequence, both as citizens and Christians ; and how much more the preservation of thousands ? It appears from the writings of Mead, Winslow, Bruhier, Fothergill, Haller, Lecat, Tissot, Van Engelen, Gummer, and others, that they had prepared the way for institutions similar to the Humane Society ; for in their works they have elucidated the principles on which such institutions proceed, and furnished directions for the practice they favour.
REAR, a term frequently used in composition to denote
something behind or backwards in respect of another. It is used in opposition to
van.
Rear of an Army
signifies, in general, the hindmost part of an army, battalion, regiment, or squadron ; and also the ground behind either.
REAR-Guard
is that body of an army which marches after the main body. The march of an army is always composed of an advanced guard, a main body, and a rearguard ; the first and last commanded by a general.
REAR Half-flies
are the three hindmost ranks of
the
battalion when it is drawn up six deep.
REAR-Line
of an army encamped, is always twelve hundred feet at least from the centre line, both of which run parallel to the front line, as also to the reserve.
REAR-Ranh
is the last rank of a battalion when drawn up, and generally sixteen or eighteen feet from the centre line when drawn up in order.
REASON, a faculty or power of the mind. See the article Metaphysics.
REASONING, Ratiocination, the exercise of that faculty of the mind which is called
reason ;
or it is an act or operation of the mind, deducing some unknown proposition from other previous ones that are evident and known. See the article Logic.
REAUMUR, Rene Antoine Ferchaolt, Sieor de, a person distinguished for his laborious researches in natural science, was born at Rochelle in 1683, being descended of a family belonging to the law. After having finished his early studies in the place of his birth, he began a course of philosophy at Poitiers, and one of civil law at Bourges ; but he soon relinquished the latter to apply himself to mathematics, physics, and natural history. Having come to Paris, he was received into the Academy of Sciences in 1708. From that hour he was wholly employed in natural history, to which his inclination particularly led him ; and his inquiries were not confined to any one part of the subject. His memoirs, his observations, his discoveries on the formation of shells, spiders, muscles, the marine flea, the berry which affords the purple colour, and on the cause of the numbness of the torpedo, excited the curiosity of the public, and early procured our author the character of an able, curious, and entertaining naturalist. Filled with zeal for the welfare and advantage of society, and for the progress and perfection of arts, he endeavoured in all his researches to promote the public good. The public were indebted to him for the discovery of the turquois mines in Languedoc. He also foιmd out a substance, now used to give false stones a colour, which is obtained from a certain fish called in the French
able
or
ablete
on account of its whiteness, and which is tlle
bleak
or
blay
of our writers. His experiments on the art of turning iron into steel obtained him a pension of twelve thousand livres ; and this reward was to be continued to the Academy to support the expense which might accrue in this art.
He continued his inquiries on the art of making tin and porcelain, and endeavoured to render our thermometers more useful than those of former times. He composed a curious history of rivers where gold-dust is found in France ; and he gave so simple and so easy a detail of the art of gathering this dust, that persons have been employed for that purpose. He also made curious and important observations on the nature of flints ; on the banks of fossil shells, whence is obtained in Touraine an excellent manure for land ; and Ukewise on birds and their preservation, on their method of building nests, on insects, and a great number
of
other subjects, not less curious than useful.
He at first imagined that a certain varnish would keep eggs fresh ; but the waste of time and money showed him the inconvenience of such a process. He afterwards adopted the method practised from time immemorial in Greece and the islands of the Archipelago, which is to steep or iπ>-
merse eggs in oil or melted fat ; by which means, not being exposed to the air or to frost, they are well preserved, and contract no bad taste or smell. Another experiment, still more important, made by our author, was to introduce into France the art of hatching fowls and birds, as practised in Egypt, without covering the eggs. Active, sedulous, and attentive, he was early in his study, often at six in the morning. Exact in his experiments and observations, he let no circumstance escape him. His writings must be of great use to future philosophers. In society he was distinguished through life for his modest and agreeable behaviour. His probity, benevolence, goodness of heart, and other amiable qualities, as well natural as acquired, endeared him to his countrymen. He died in the seventy-sixth year of his age, on the 18th of October 1757, and left this world filled with sentiments of piety. His death was the consequence of a fall, which happened at the castle of Bar-nardière on the Maine, where he went to pass his vocation. He bequeathed to the Academy of Sciences his manuscripts and all his natural productions. His works are, 1. A very great number of memoirs, and observations on different parts of natural history, printed in the collections of the Academy of Sciences; and, 2. A large work printed separately in six vols. 4to, entitled a Natural History of Insects. This important work contains a description of vast numbers of caterpillars, moths, gall-insects, flies with two and four wings, lady-birds, and those ephemeron flies which live only in that form a few hours ; and, lastly, of those singular and wonderful insects which are called
polypes,
which being cut into several pieces, each piece lives, grows, and becomes an insect, and affords to our eyes a great number of prodigies. The works of M. de Reaumur are exact, curious, interesting, and exceedingly ingenious. They are written with much candour, clearness, and elegance ; but it must be acknowledged that his manner is somewhat too diftuse. We must not deceive the reader. He often raises our expectations, and does not give us all the satisfaction which we promise ourselves from his writings. His method of raising poultry, in particular, rather disappoints us. He spared neither care, time, nor expense, to render it practicable. He flattered himself and his countrymen with the greatest hopes ; but, notwithstanding his assiduous industry and vast charges, it proved abortive. M. TAdvocat recommended him to obtain from Egypt better information on the subject, and if possible to procure a person versed in the art to instruct him in it ; but his death prevented the completion of the scheme. If any native of Egypt had arrived, shelved M. de Reaumur a better method than his own, and practised it with success, as in his country, the community would have been benefited ; on the other hand, he would have seen, if it had tailed, that the climate of France was not proper for such experiments. M. Maillet, consul at Cairo, to whom the regent had written to obtain the art, offered to send over a native of Egypt, if the government would pay the expense of his voyage, and allow him a pension of 1500 livres. M. Mailletjudged rightly when he preferred this method of proceeding. M. de Reaumur was not ignorant of the design, but he flattered himself that his efforts would be successful without further aid, and thought he should acquire some honour. He certainly had great talents, industry, sagacity, and every other requisite which is necessary in such attempts ; but it is morally impossible that a single man, in a different climate, can attain such knowledge in an art as those who live in a more favourable country, and have had the experience of many ages to profit by. Yet, however unsuccessful M. de Reaumur may have been, posterity is indebted to him for his repeated trials. He has removed some difficulties in the road, and those who travel it may discover what he only saw at a distance.
REBATE, or Rebatement, in
Commerce,
a term much used at Amsterdam for an abatement in the price of several commodities, when the buyer, instead of taking time, advances ready money.
Rebatement, in
Heraldry,
a diminution or abatement of the bearings in a coat of arms.
REBELLION,
Rebellio,
amongst the Romans, was where those who had been formerly overcome in battle, and yielded to their subjection, made a second resistance. But with us it is generally used for the taking up of arms traitorously against the king, whether by natural subjects or others when once subdued ; and the word
rebel
is sometimes applied to him who wilfully breaks a law, as also to a villein disobeying his lord.
There is a difference between enemies and rebels. Enemies are those who are out of the king’s allegiance ; and therefore subjects of the king, either in open war or rebellion, are not the king’s enemies, but traitors. Thus David prince of Wales, who levied war against Edward L, because he was within the allegiance of the king, had sentence pronounced against him as a traitor and a rebel. Private persons may arm themselves to suppress rebels.
REBUS, an enigmatical representation of some name or thing, by using figures or pictures instead of words or parts of words. Camden mentions an instance of this kind of wit in a gallant who expressed his love to a woman named 
Rose Hill,
by painting in the border of his gown a rose, a hill, an eye, a loaf, and a well ; which, in the style of the rebus, reads, “
Rose Hill I love well.”
This kind of wit was long practised by the great, who took the pains to find devices for their names. It was, however, happily ridiculed by Ben Jonson in the humorous description of AbelDrug-ger’s device in the Alchemist, by the Spectator in the device of Jack of Newberry, at which time the rebus, being raised to sign-posts, was grown out of fashion at court.
Rebus is also used by the chemical writers, sometimes to signify sour milk, and sometimes for what they call the ultimate matter of which all bodies are composed.
Rebus, in
Heraldry,
is a coat of arms which bears an allusion to the name of the person ; as three castles for Castleton, three cups for Butler, three conics for Conisby ; a kind of bearings which are of great antiquity.
RECANATI, a city of Italy, in the delegation of Macerata, in the papal dominions. It is situated on a mountain overlooking the Adriatic Sea. It is the seat of a bishop in union with the city of Loretto, and has a cathedral, eight parish churches, eight monasteries, and four nunneries. It is well built, and has a haven at the mouth of the Potenza, with a population of 5990 persons. Long. 13. 27. 48. E. Lat. 43. 25. 40. N.
RECENSIO was an account taken by the censors, every lustrum, of all the Roman people. It was a general survey, at which the
equites,
as well as the rest of the people, were required to appear. New names were now put upon the censor’s list, and old ones cancelled. The
recensio,
in short, was a more solemn and accurate sort of
probatio,
and answered the purpose of a review, by showing who were fit for military service.
RECHÀBITES, a kind of religious order amongst the ancient Jews, instituted by Jonadab the son of Rechab, comprehending only his own family and posterity. Their founder prescribed them three things : first, not to drink any wine ; secondly, not to build any houses, but to dwell in tents ; and, thirdly, not to sow any corn or plant vines.
RECHEAT, in hunting, a lesson which the huntsman plays on the horn, when the hounds have lost their game, to call them back from pursuing a counter scent.
RECHERCHE Archipelago, agroup of islands stretching about 126 miles along the south coast of New Holland, between the thirty-third and thirty-fourth degrees of south latitude. Several of them are naked rocks; and from the coast of New Holland the access is extremely difficult, owing to the rocks and shoals that are interspersed.
■ RECIPROCAL, in general, is something that is mutual, or which ls returned equally on both sides, or affects both parties alike.
Reciprocal, in
Mathematics,
is applied to quantities which, multiplied together, make unity. Thus - and
x, y
and -, are reciprocal quantities. Likewise - is said to be
y    %
reciprocal of
x,
which is again the reciprocal of -.
Reciprocal Figures,
in
Geometry,
those which have the antecedents and consequents of the same ratio in both figures.
RECIPROCAL Proportion
is when, in four numbers, the fourth is less than the second by as much as the third is greater than the first, and
vice versa.
Great use is made of this reciprocal proportion by Sir Isaac Newton and others, in demonstrating the laws of motion.
Reciprocal Terms,
amongst logicians, are those which have the same signification, and consequently are convertible, or may be used for each other.
RECITATIVO, or Recitative, in
Music,
a kind of singing, that differs but little from ordinary pronunciation ; such as that in which the several parts of the liturgy are rehearsed in cathedrals ; or that in which the actors commonly deliver themselves on the theatre at the opera, when they are to express some action or passion, relate some event, or reveal some design.
RECKLINGHAUSEN, a city of the Prussian province fo Westphalia, in the government of Munster, and the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 265 square miles, and contains 38,300 inhabitants. The city contains two churches, a convent, 420 houses, and 2500 inhabitants, but has very little trade. Long. l 7. 4. 57. E. Lat. 51. 37. 25. N.
RECKONING, or a
Ship's Reckoning,
in
Navigation,
is the account by which at any time it may he known where the ship is, and on what course or courses she is to steer, in order to gain her port; and that account, when taken from the log-board, is called the
dead reckoning.
RECLAIMING, or Reclaming, in our ancient customs, a lord’s pursuing, prosecuting, and recalling his vassal, who had gone to live in another place without his permission.
Reclaiming is also used for the demanding of a person or thing, to be delivered up to the prince or state to which it properly belongs, when, by any irregular means, it has passed into the possession of another.
Reclaiming, in
Falcotiry,
is taming a hawk, and making her gentle and familiar.
A partridge is said to reclaim when she calls her young ones together, upon their scattering too much from her.
RECOGNIZANCE, in
Law,
is an obligation of record, which a man enters into before some court of record or magistrate, duly authorized, with condition to do some particular act, as to appear at the assizes, to keep the peace, to pay a debt, or the like.
RECOIL, or Rebound, the starting backwards of a firearm after an explosion. Mersenne tells us, that a cannon twelve feet in length, weighing 6400lbs. gives a ball of 24lbs. an uniform velocity of 640 feet per second. Putting, therefore, W = 6400, w =x 14, V = 640, and
v —
the velocity with which the cannon recoils ; because the momentums of the cannon and ball are equal, we shall have W
v = w
tv V
24* x 64
V ; and so
v =    '
    = 2∙4; that is, it would
recoil at the rate of 21 ⅞ feet per second, if free to move.
RECOLLECTION, a mode of thinking, by which ideas sought after by the mind are found and brought to view. See the article Metaphysics.
RECONNOITRE, in military affairs, implies to view and examine the state of things, in order to make a report thereon.
RECORDE, Robert, a physician and mathematician, was descended of a respectable family in Wales, and lived in the time of Henry VIII. Edlvard VI. and Mary of England. The time of his birth is not exactly known, but it must have been about tlle beginning of the sixteenth century ; for he was entered of the university of Oxford about 1525, and was elected fellow of All-Souls College in 1531. As he made physic his profession, he went to Cambridge, where he was honoured with the degree of doctor in that faculty in 1545, and was very much esteemed by all who were acquainted with him, for his extensive knowledge of many of the arts and sciences. ■ He afterwards returned to Oxford, where he publicly taught arithmetic and mathematics, as he had done prior to his going to Cambridge, and that with great applause. It appears that he afterwards went to London, and acted as physician to Edward VI. and to Queen Mary, to whom some of his books are dedicated ; yet he died in the King⅛-Bench prison, Southwark, where he was confined for debt in the year 1558, at a very immature age.
He published several works upon mathematical subjects, chiefly in the form of dialogue between master and scholar. Of these the following is a list, viz. 1. The Pathway to Knowledge, containing the first principles of geometry, as they may moste aptly be applied unto practice, bothe for the use of Instrumentes Geometricall and Astronomicall, and also for projection of Plattes, much necessary for all sortes of men, London, 1551, 4to ; 2. The Ground of Arts, teaching the perfect worke and practice of Arithmeticke, both in whole numbers and fractions, after a more easie and exact forme then in former time hath been set furth, 1552, 8vo ; 3. The Castle of Knowledge, containing the Explication of the Sphere both Celestiall and Materiall, and divers other things incident thereto, with sundry pleasaunt proofes and certaine newe demonstrations not written before in any vulgare woorkes, London, 1556, folio; 4. The Whetstone of Witte, which is the second part of Arithmetike, containing the extraction of rootes, the Cossike practice, with the rules of equation, and the woorkes of surde numbers, London, 1557, 4to.
Wood says that he was the author of several pieces on physic, anatomy, politics, and divinity ; but it is uncertain whether these were ever published. Sherburne states that he also published
Cosrnographiw Isagoge ;
that he wrote a book,
De Arte faciendi Horologium,
and another
De usu Globorum, et de statu Temρoτurn.
RECORDER, a person whom the mayor and other magistrates of a city or corporation associate to themselves for their bettcr direction in matters of justice and proceedings in law ; on which account this person is generally a counsellor, or other person well skilled in the law.
RECOVERY, in English law, a species of assurance by matter of record, concerning the original of which it must be remarked, that common recoveries were invented by the ecclesiastics to elude the statutes of mortmain ; and afterwards they were encouraged by the finesse of the courts of law in 12 Edward IV., in ortler to put an end to all fettered inheritances, and bar not only estates-tail, but also all remainders and reversions expectant thereon.
RECREATION Island, a fertile island in the Southern Pacific Ocean, discovered by Roggewein in the year 1722. It is about twelve leagues in circuit. The inhabitants are warlike and robust. Long. 148. W. Lat. 18. S.
RECTANGLE, in
Geometry,
is the same with a right-angled parallelogram.
RECTIFICATION, in
Chemistry,
is nothing but the repetition several times of a distillation or sublimation, in order to render the substance purer, finer, and freer from aqueous and earthy parts.
Rectification, in
Geometry,
is the method of finding a
right line equal to a curve. The rectification of curves is a branch belonging to the higher geometry, in which the use of the inverse method of fluxions is of singular utility.
RECTILINEAR, in
Geometry,
right-lined. Thus figures the perimeter of which consists of right lines, are said to be rectilinear.
RECTOR, a term applied to several persons whose offices are very different. The rector of a parish is a clergyman who has the charge and cure of a parish, and possesses all the tithes, &c. The same name is also given to the chief elective officer in several foreign universities, particularly in that of Paris, and also in those of Scotland ; and it is likewise applied to the head master of large schools in Scotland, as in the High School of Edinburgh. Rector is further used in several convents to indicate the superior officer who governs the house ; and the Jesuits give this name to the superiors of such of their houses as are either seminaries or colleges.
RECTORY is a parish-church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
Rectory, however, is sometimes used for the rector’s mansion or parsonage-house.
RECUPERATORES, amongst the Romans, were commissioners appointed to take cognizance of private matters in dispute, between the subjects of the state and foreigners, and to take care that the former had justice done them. It came at last to be used for commissioners, to whom the praetor referred the determination of any affair between one subject and another.
RECUSANTS, such persons as acknowledge the pope to be the supreme head of the church, and refuse to acknowledge the king’s supremacy. They are hence called Popish Recusants.
RED, one of the colours called
simple
or
primary,
being one of the shades into which the light naturally divides itself when refracted through a prism.
Red-JZooA of the Exchequer, an ancient record or manuscript volume, in the keeping of the king’s remembrancer, and containing divers treatises relating to the times before the Conquest.
RED POINT, a cape on the east coast of New Holland, with four projecting hillocks upon it, and which has the appearance of a double saddle. Long. 150. 56. E. Lat. 34. 33. S.
RED RIVER is one of the principal confluents of the Mississippi, in North America. Its source is situated at the base of a range
of
the Rocky Mountains, called the Caous Mountains, near Santa Fe, in Mexico. A great number of streams descend this chain, and, flowing separately for some three or four hundred miles, at length unite and form the Red River. The country through which its upper branches flow is but little known. After the river enters Louisiana, its south bank forms for a great distance the boundary between the United States and Texas. Much of its course lies through noble prairies of a rich red soil covered with grass intermingled with vines, which bear, it is said, excellent grapes. About a hundred miles above Natchitoches the alluvion enlarges to a breadth of twenty or thirty miles, forming a sort of swampy bed through which the river flows in a number of channels. Great quantities of timber, brought down from the upper parts of the river, have for ages been accumulating in these channels, and to such an extent, that in some parts the stream may be crossed on horseback. Hence the name of Raft, which this swampy expansion bears throughout its whole extent. The river finds its way sometimes below these accumulations of timber, sometimes between them. Nearly seventy miles of the river are thus obstructed ; and it is of incalculable injury to its navigation, for here small boats only can pass. For nearly a thousand miles above the Raft the soil is extremely rich, and the climate very salubrious ; but, until
this obstacle be removed, it will form an almost insurmount able barrier to its proper settlement. Below the Raft the river separates into a number of channels, and expands at intervals into a multitude of sheets of water. Its breadth enlarges as it approaches the Mississippi ; but immediately below the Raft the channel becomes narrower than above it. From both sides it receives a vast number of tributaries. The whole length of this noble stream is estimated at 2500 miles, following its meanderings ; and it enters the Mississippi in about 31° 15' north latitude. It was supposcd at one time to discharge itself into the Gulf of Mexico without joining the Mississippi. Much of the soil through which the Red River passes in its upper course is of a reddish colour, which is imparted to the waters, and hence the name of the stream. So impregnated is it with this ochreous earth, that at low water at Natchitoches it cannot be used for culinary purposes. The valley of Red River is three or four miles in breadth as far as the Kiamesia, which, following its windings, is about a thousand miles from its mouth. But it widens to from six to eighteen miles as it approaches the Mississippi, and is of an average breadth of twelve miles for a great distance above the confluence of the rivers. This alluvial tract is considered as equal to any in all the vast valley of the Mississippi. The staple production is cotton, of a quality superior to any raised in thc United States except Sea Island. Its indigo and tobacco are the best raised in Louisiana ; and sugar has been introduced, and found to thrive well.    (r. r. r.)
Red River is also the name of a number of other American streams. The most important is that which flows into Lake Winnipeg, in the northern part of North America. It is formed of two branches, the principal of which rises in Red Lake, and flows west by north for a hundred and fifty miles, when it is joined by the other branch. It then changes its direction to east of north, and flows for a hundred and eighty miles below its junction, when it falls into Lake Winnipeg.    (R. κ. r.)
RED SEA. This great inlet of the Indian Ocean, which divides Arabia from the opposite coast of Africa, extends in a north-west direction about 1400 miles from the Straits of Babelmandel1 where it is not above thirty miles across to Suez, and only sixty miles distant from the Mediterranean, so that the maritime communication by this route between India and Europe is only divided by this narrow isthmus, which also forms the connecting link between the continents of Asia and Africa. This sea lies between the twelfth and thirtieth degrees of north latitude, and is nowhere broader than 200 miles, and scarcely ever of that width. The navigation of the Red Sea is difficult and dangerous, owing to the reefs and coral rocks both above and under the water ; and also, for nine months of the year, in consequence of the violent winds which blow regularly from the north, and impede the passage from the Straits to Suez. There are few harbours to which vessels in distress can repair for shelter. On the eastern coast there is not a single harbour from Suez to Yambo, the port of Medina, nor thence to Jidda. Compodah is the next harbour, about 150 miles south of Jidda. But, in entering Yemen, there are the harbours of Mocha, Loheia, and Hodeida. The navigation to Suez, at the head of the gulf, is extremely difficult through the upper part of the Red Sea, the channel through which vessels have to pass being narrow, with rocks sunk beneath the surface. The only other ports on the western shore are Cosseir, the port and road of which are formed by reefs, which defend it from the north-east winds, and by a headland, which secures it against those blowing from the south-south-east, and which has only a depth of water of two fathoms and a half. Here the goods destined for Egypt are landed, conveyed by land to Keneh on the Nile, thence down the river to Alexandria. Suakim, about 500 miles south-east of Cosseir, is extremely difficult of entrance, not
only on account of its narrowness at the mouth, which requires an extremely favourable wind, but from the rocks and shoals which lie off it in every direction. By this port hosts of pilgrims and slaves come from the interior of Africa for the purpose of crossing to Jidda and Mecca. Massuah is about 250 miles south-east of Suakim, and is the port of Abyssinia, by which its whole commerce is carried on. The Red Sea penetrating on the one side so deep into the land between the continents of Asia and Africa, and the great inlet of the Mediterranean on the other between Europe and Africa, appear to be admirably adapted for facilitating the commerce and maritime intercourse of the world ; and though the intervention of the Isthmus of Suez detracts from their utility, yet, in ancient times, the great trade of Europe and India was carried on through this channel. By the Red Sea also the fleets of Solomon maintained an intercourse with the celebrated countries of Ophir and Tarshish ; the situation of which is variously conjectured to be either on the coast of Africa beyond the straits, or on the western shores of Hindustan. The trade of the ancient world with India was carried on entirely by this route ; and Alexandria became the great emporium of eastern produce, from which it was distributed by means of the Mediterranean all over Europe. This trade flourished greatly under the reign of the Ptolemies, who succeeded in establishing a regular communication both with Africa and with Hindustan. It was long a source of great commercial wτ ealth, and was vigorously prosecuted during the whole period that the Roman empire subsisted. But it was long suspended by the overthrow' of the Roman power, and during the irruptions of the barbarian hordes, who carried their devastations over the greater part of the civilized world. With literature and refinement commerce revived; and the Venetians established factories at Alexandria, by which they carried on the trade to India through the channel of the Red Sea. Since this period the discovery of the passage to India by the Cape of Good Hope has entirely superseded the route by the Red Sea, and changed the course of the trade to India. But in modern times the introduction of steam-navigation will probably revive the long-abandoned route to India by the Red Sea. The baffling winds which, for nine months in the year, impeded the passage up this sea, will now’ be overcome by the superior power of steam, nor will the calms which sometimes prevail oppose any further obstacle to its navigation ; whilst the route, being so much shorter than by the long circuit round the Cape of Good Hope, may be accomplished in a much shorter time, and is on every account to be preferred.
The passage of the Israelites through the Red Sea has furnished matter for much curious research and ingenious speculation. Bruce, in his Travels, states, that at the place where he supposes the passage to have been made the sea is not quite four leagues in breadth, so that it might easily have been crossed in one night without any miracle. There are about fourteen fathoms water in the channel, and nine at the sides, with good anchorage everywhere ; the farthest side is a low sandy coast, and a very easy landing place. 41 The draught of the bottom of the gulf,” says he, “ given by Dr Pococke, is very' erroneous in every part of it. It was proposed to Mr Niebuhr, when in Egypt, to inquire, upon the spot, whether there were not some ridges of rocks where the water was shallow, so that an army at particular times might pass over; secondly, whether tlle Etesian winds, which blow strongly all summer from the north-west, could not blow so violently against the sea as to keep it back on a heap, so that the Israelites might have passed without a miracle. And a copy of these queries was left for me to join my inquiries likewise. But I must confess, however learned the gentlemen were who proposed these doubts, I did not think they merited any attention to solve them. If the Etesian winds, blowing from the north-west in summer, could keep the sea as a wall on the right or to the south, of fifty feet high, still the difficulty would remain of building the wall on the left hand, or to the north. Besides, water standing in that position for a day must have lost the nature of a fluid. Whence came that cohesion of particles that hindered that wall to escape at the sides ? This is as great a miracle as that of Moses. If the Etesian winds had done this once, they must have repeated it many a time before and since from the same causes. Yet Diodorus Siculus says, the Troglodytes, the indigenous inhabitants of that very spot, have a tradition from father to son, from their very earliest and remotest ages, that once this division of the sea did happen there ; and that, after leaving the bottom some time dry, the sea again came back and covered it with great fury. The words of this author are of the most remarkable kind. We cannot think tlιis heathen is writing in favour of revelation. He knew not Moses, nor says a word about Pharaoh and his host ; but records the miracle of the division of the sea in words nearly as strong as those of Moses, from the mouths of unbiassed undesigning pagans.”
REDBURN, a town of the county of Hertford, in the hundred of Cashio, twenty-six miles from London, and on the great northern road. It consists of a single street, about a mile in length. The population amounted in 1801 to 1153, in 1811 to 1333, in 1821 to 1784, and in 1831 to 2047.
REDDYGOODUM, a town of Hindustan, in the province of the Circars, and district of Condapilly. Long. 80. 4L E. Lat. 16. 53. N.
REDEMPTION, in
Law,
a faculty or right of re-entering upon lands which have been sold and assigned, upon reimbursing the purchase-money with legal costs.
Redemption, in
Theology,
denotes the recovery of mankind from sin and death, by the obedience and sacrifice of Christ, who on this account is called the Redeemer of the World.
REDON, an arrondissement of the department of ∏le Vilaine, in France, which is 502 square miles in extent, and is divided into seven cantons, and these into forty-six communes, containing 76,884 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name, situated on the river Vilaine. It is well built, has a fine exchange, and in 1836 contained 4506 inhabitants, carrying on a considerable trade in serges Bndotherwoollengoods. Long. 2.11. W. Lat. 47.49. 9. N.
REDOUBT, in
Fortification,
a small square fort, without any defence but in front ; it is used in trenches, lines of circumvallation, contravallation, and approach, and also for the lodging of corps-de-garde, and for defending passages.
REDRUTH, a market-town and parish of the county of Cornwall, in the hundred of Penwdth, 263 miles from London, and four from Truro. It is situated in the midst of one of the districts most rich in mineral ores, the working of which forms the chief occupation of the inhabitants. It has markets on Tuesday and Friday. The population amounted in 1801 to 4924, in 1811 to 5903, in 1821 to 6607, and in 1831 to 8191.
REDUCTION, in the schools, signifies a manner of bringing a term or proposition which was before opposite to some other, to be equivalent to it.
Reduction, in
Arithmetic,
that rule by wdlich numbers of different denominations are brought into one denomination.
REDUCTION of Equations,
in
Algebra,
is the clearing them from all superfluous quantities, bringing them to their lowest terms, and separating the known from the unknown, till at length only the unknown quantity is found upon one side, and the known ones on the other. The reduction of an equation is the last part of the resolution of the problem.
REDUNDANT, in
Music.
What tlle French call
“ une accord superflue,” which we have translated a redundant chord, has by others been rendered a chord extremely sharp, as in the translation of Rameau’s Principles of Composition. Their nature will be best understood by a few examples, and an account of the number of tones, semitones, or lesser intervals, contained in each.
The
second redundant
is composed of a major tone and a minor semitone, as from
fa
to
sol
sharp. Its proportion is as 64 to 75. The
third redundant
consists of two tones and a semitone, as
fa ht
sharp. Its proportion is as 96 to 125. The
fourth redundant
is the same with the tritone.
From these examples compared with the same intervals in their natural state, the reader may form a general idea of what is meant by
redundant.
REDUPLICATION of sounds in musical harmony. See the article Music, under section
Harmony.
REE, Reis, or
Res,
a small Portuguese coin. See
Money- Table.
REEF, a term in navigation. When there is a heavy gale of wind, the seamen commonly roll up part of the sail below, that by this means it may become the narrower, and not draw so much wind ; and this contracting or taking up the sail they call a
reef,
or
reefing the sail.
So also, when a
top-mast is sprung,
as they call it, that is, when it is cracked, or almost broken in the cap, they cut off the lower piece that was nearly broken off, and setting the other part, now much shorter, in the step again, they call it a 
reefed top-mast.
REEF Island, a small island in the Eastern Seas, about fifty miles from the west coast of Sumatra, and called also Disastrous Island, from the number of shipwrecks which have taken place near it. Long. 101. 3. E. Lat. 4. S. It is also the name of a small island near the northern coast of the island of Celebes. Long. 122. 48. E. Lat. 0. 8. N.
REEL, in the manufactories, a machine employed for the purpose of reeling. There are various kinds of reels ; some very simple, others very complex.
REELING, in the manufactories, the winding of silk, cotton, or the like, into a skain, or upon a button, to prevent its entangling. It is also used for the charging or discharging of bobbins or quills, to be employed in the manufacture of different stuffs, as thread, silk, cotton, and the like. Reeling is performed in difl’erent ways, and on different engines.
REEPHAM, a market-town of the county of Norfolk, in the hundred of Eynesford, 113 miles from London, and thirteen from Norwich. It was once much larger than at present, and had three churches. It stands on the river Eyne, and has a market, which is held on Saturday. The population amounted in 1801 to 284, in 1811 to 299, in 1821 to 345, and in 1831 to 452.
REES, a town of the Prussian government of Cleves, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 166 square miles, comprehending seven cities and towns, thirty-seven villages, and 32,950 inhabitants. The town is situated on the river Rhine, and contains two churches, 470 houses, and 2800 inhabitants. Long. 6. 17. 14. E. Lat. 51. 45. 55. N.
REEVE, Clara, the ingenious authoress of
The Old English Baron,
was the daughter of the Reverend William Reeve, rector of Freston, and of Kerton, in Suffolk, and perpetual curate of St Nicholas. Her mother’s maiden name was Smithies, daughter of Mr Smithies, goldsmith and jeweller to George I. The father of Miss Reeve was “ an old Whig,” and from him she learned all that she knew ; he was her oracle, and used to make her readl the parliamentary debates whilst he smoked his pipe after supper. Under the same paternal tuition, she also read Rapin’s History of England, Cato’s Letters, the Greek and Roman histories, and Plutarch’s Lives, at an age when few people 
of
either sex can read their own names. Mr Reeve, him
self one of a family of eight children, had the same number of offspring ; and hence it is probable that Clara’s strong ' natural turn for study, rather than any degree of exclusive care which his partiality could bestow, enabled her to acquire such a stock of early information.
After the death of Mr Reeve, his widow resided in Colchester with three of his daughters ; and it was here that Clara first became an authoress, by translating from the original Latin Barclay’s fine old romance of Argenis, which was published in 1762, under the title of
The Phœnix.
It was not, however, until 1767, five years afterwards, that she produced her first and most distinguished work, which was published by Mr Dilly of the Poultry, under the title of
The Champion of Virtue.
The sum given for the copyright was only ten pounds ; but in the following year the work came to a second edition, and was then first called 
The Old English Baron,
for what reason we do not pretend to conjecture. This production is inscribed to Mrs Brigden, the daughter of Richardson, who is stated to have lent some assistance in the revision and correction of the work.
The success of The Old English Baron encouraged Miss Reeve to devote more of her leisure hours to literary composition, and accordingly she published in succession, The Two Mentors, The Progress of Romance, The Exile, The School for Widows, Plans of Education, and Memoirs of Sir Roger de Clarendon, a natural son of the Black Prince, with Anecdotes of many other eminent persons of the fourteenth century. To these works there remains to be added another, the interest of which turned upon supernatural appearances. In a preface to a subsequent edition of The Old English Baron, Miss Reeve informs the public that, in compliance with the suggestion of a friend, she had composed
Castle Connor,
an Irish story, in which apparitions were introduced. But the manuscript being intrusted to some careless or unfaithful person, fell aside, and was never recovered. The various novels produced by this lady are all marked by excellent good sense, pure morality, and a considerable command of those qualities requisite to constitute a good romance. They were, generally speaking, favourably received at the time ; but none of them took the same strong possession of the public mind as The Old English Baron, upon which the fame of the author may be considered as now exclusively rested, and by which alone βhe will be known to posterity.
Miss Reeve led a retired life, affording no materials for biography, until the beginning of December 1803, when she died at Ipswich, her native city, at the advanced age of seventy-eight years, and was buried in the churchyard of St Stephens, according to her particular direction. Such are the only particulars that have been collected concerning this accomplished and excellent woman ; and, in their simplicity, the reader may remark that of her life and her character. The following critical observations, confined entirely to her most celebrated work, which first established her fame, and upon which alone it will in all probability rest, are extracted from the biographical notice of Miss Reeve by Sir Walter Scott, to which we have also been in·* debted for the foregoing particulars of her life.
“ The authoress has herself informed us that The Old English Baron is the * literary offspring of The Castle of Otranto ;’ and she has obliged us by pointing out the different and more limited view which she had adopted, of the supernatural machinery employed by Horace Walpole. She condemns the latter for the extravagance of several of his conceptions; for the gigantic size of his sword and helmet; and for the violent fictions of a walking picture, and a skeleton in a hermit’s cowl. A ghost, she contends, to be admitted as an ingredient in romance, must behave himself like ghosts of sober demeanour, and subject himself to the common rules still preserved in grange and hall, as circumscribing beings of his description.
“ We must, however, notwithstanding her authority, enter our protest against fettering the realm of shadows by the opinions entertained of it in the world of realities. If we are to try ghosts by the ordinary rules of humanity, we bar them of their privileges entirely. For instance, why admit the existence of an aerial phantom, and deny it the terrible attribute of magnifying its stature ? why admit an enchanted helmet, and not a gigantic one ? why allow as an impressive incident the fall of a suit of armour, thrown down, we must suppose, by no mortal hand, and at the same time deny the same supernatural influence the power of producing the illusion (for it is only represented as such) upon Manfred, which gives seeming motion and life to the portrait of his ancestor ? It may be said, and it seems to be Miss Reeve’s argument, that there is a verge of probability, which even the most violent figment must not transgress ; but we reply by the cross question, that if we are once to subject our preternatural agents to the limits of human reason, where are we to stop? We might, under such a rule, demand of ghosts an account of the very circuitous manner in which they are pleased to open their communications with the living world. We might, for example, move a
quo warranto
against the spectre of the murdered Lord Lovel, for lurking about the eastern apartment, when it might have been reasonably expected, that if he did not at once impeach his murderers to the next magistrate, he might at least have put Fitzowen into the secret, and thus obtained the succession of his son more easily than by the dubious and circuitous route of a single combat. If there should be an appeal against this imputation, founded on the universal practice of ghosts, in such circumstances, who always act with singular obliquity in disclosing the guilt of which they complain, the matter becomes a question of precedent ; in which view of the case, we may vindicate Horace Walpole for the gigantic exaggeration of his phantom, by the similar expansion of the terrific vision of Fa-doun, in Blind Harry’s Life of Wallace ; and we could, were we so disposed, have paralleled his moving picture, by the example of one with which we ourselves had some acquaintance, which was said both to move and to utter groans, to the great alarm of a family of the highest respectability.
“ Where, then, may the reader ask, is the line to be drawn ? or what are the limits to be placed to the reader’s credulity, when those of common sense and ordinary nature are once extended ? The question admits only one answer, namely, that the author himself, being in fact the magician, shall evoke no spirits whom he is not capable of endowing with manners and language corresponding to their supernatural character. Thus Shakspeare, drawing such characters as Caliban and Ariel, gave them reality, not by appealing to actual opinions, which his audience might entertain respecting the possibility or impossibility of their existence, hut by investing them with such attributes as all readers and spectators recognised as those which must have corresponded to such extraordinary beings, had their existence been possible. If he had pleased to put into language the ‘ squeaking and gibbering* of those disembodied phantoms which haunted the streets of Rome, no doubt his wonderful imagination could have filled up the sketch which, marked by these two emphatic and singularly felicitous expressions, he has left as characteristic of the language of the dead.
“ In this point of view, our authoress has, with equal judgment and accuracy, confined her flight within those limits on which her pinions could support her; and though we are disposed to contest her general principle, we are willing to admit it as a wise and prudent one, so far as applied to regulate her ow, n composition. In no part of The Old English Baron, or of any other of her works, does Miss Reeve show the possession of a rich or powerful imagination. Her dialogue is sensible, easy, and agreeable,
but 
neither marked by high flights of fancy nor strong bursts of passion. Her apparition is an ordinary fiction, of which popular superstition used to furnish a thousand instances, when nights were long, and a family, assembled round a Christmas log, had little better to do than to listen to such tales. Miss Reeve has been very felicitously cautious in showing us no more of Lord Lovel’s ghost than she needs must ; he is a silent apparition, palpable to the sight only, and never brought forward into such broad daylight as might have dissolved our reverence. And so far, we repeat, the authoress has used her own power to the utmost advantage, and gained her point by not attempting a step beyond it. But we cannot allow that the rule which, in her own case, has been well and wisely adopted, ought to circumscribe a bolder and more imaginative writer.
“ In what may be called the costume, or keeping, of the chivalrous period in which tlle scene of both is laid, the language and style of Horace Walpole, together with his intimate acquaintance with the manners of the middle ages, form an incalculable difference betwixt The Castle of Otranto and The Old English Baron. Clara Reeve, probably, was better acquainted with Plutarch and Rapin than with Froissart or Olivier de la Marche. This is no imputation on the taste of that ingenious lady. In her days, Macbeth was performed in a general’s full uniform, and Lord Hastings was dressed like a modern high chamberlain going to court. Or, if she looked to romances for her authority, those of the French school were found introducing, under the reign of Cyrus or of Faramond, or in the early republic at Rome, the sentiments and manners of the court of Louis XIV. In the present day more attention to costume is demanded, and authors, as well as players, are obliged to make attempts, however fantastic or grotesque, to imitate the manners on the one hand, and the dress on the other, of the times in which the scene is laid. Formerly, nothing of this kind was either required or expected ; and it is not improbable that the manner in which Walpole circumscribes his dialogue (in most instances) within the stiff and stem precincts prescribed by a strict attention to the manners and language of the times, is the first instance of such restrictions. In The Old English Baron, on the contrary, all parties speak and act much in tlle fashion of the seventeenth century ; employ the same phrases of courtesy ; and adopt the same tone of conversation. Baron Fitzowen1 and the principal characters, talk after the fashion of country squires of that period, and the lower personages like gaffers and gammers of the same era. And ‘ were but the combat in the lists left out,’ or converted into a modem duel, the whole train of incidents might, for any peculiarity to be traced in the dialect or narration, have taken place in the time of Charles II., or in either of the two succeeding reigns. As it is, the story reads as if it had been transcribed into the language, and remodelled according to the ideas, of this latter period. Yet we are uncertain whether, upon the whole, this does not rather add to than dimmish the interest of the work ; at least it gives an interest of a different kind, which, if it cannot compete with that which arises out of a highly exalted and poetical imagination, and a strict attention to the character and manners of the middle ages, has yet this advantage, that it reaches its point more surely than had a higher, more difficult, and more ambitious line ofcomposition been attemptcd.
“ He that would please the modern world, yet present tlle exact impression of a tale of the middle ages, will repeatedly find that he will be obliged, in despite of his utmost exertions, to sacrifice the last to the first object, and eternally expose himself to the just censure of the rigid antiquary, because he must, to interest the readers of the present time, invest his characters with language and sentiments unknown to the period assigned to his story ; and
thus his utmost efforts only attain a sort of composition between the true and the fictitious, just as the dress ot Lear, as performed on the stage, is neither that of a modem sovereign, nor the cerulean painting and bear-hide with which the Britons, at the time when that monarch is supposed to have lived, tattooed their persons, and sheltered themselves from cold. All this inconsistency is avoided by adopting the style of our grandfathers and great-grandfathers, sufficiently antiquated to accord with the antiquated character of the narrative, yet copious enough to express all that is necessary to its interest, and to supply that deficiency of colouring which the more ancient times do not afford.
“ It is no doubt true that The Old English Baron, written in the latter and less ambitious taste, is sometimes tame and tedious, not to say mean and tiresome. The total absence of peculiar character (for every person introduced is rather described as one of a genus than as an original, discriminated, and individual person) may have its effect in producing the tedium which loads the story in some places. This is a general defect in the novels of the period, and it was scarce to be expected that the amiable and accomplished authoress, in her secluded situation, and with acquaintance of events and characters derived from books alone, should have rivalled those authors who gathered their knowledge of the human heart from having, like Fielding and Smollett, become acquainted, by sad experience, with each turn of ‘ many-coloured life.’ Nor was it to be thought that she should have emulated in this particular her prototype Walpole, who, as a statesman, a poet, and a man of the world, ‘ who knew the world like a man,’ has given much individual character to his sketch of Manfred. What we here speak of is not the deficiency in the style and costume, but a certain creeping and low line of narrative and sentiment ; which may be best illustrated by the grave and minute accounting into which Sir Philip Harclay and the Baron Fitzowen enter, after an event so unpleasant as the judgment of heaven upon a murderer, brought about by a judicial combat, and that combat occasioned by the awful and supernatural occurrences in the eastern chamber, where we find the arrears of the estate gravely set off against the education of the heir, and his early maintenance in the baron’s family. Yeteven these prolix, minute, and unnecessary details are precisely such as would occur in a similar story told by a grandsire or grandame to a circle assembled round a winter’s fire ; and while they take from the dignity of the composition, and would therefore have been rejected by a writer of more exalted imagination, do certainly add in some degree to its reality, and bear in that respect a resemblance to the art with which De Foe impresses on his readers the truth of his fictions, by the insertion of many minute and immaterial or unnatural circumstances, which we are led to suppose could only be recorded because they are true. Perhaps, to be circumstantial and abundant in minute detail, and, in one word, though an unauthorized one, to be somewhat
prosy,
is a secret mode of securing a certain necessary degree of credulity from the hearers of a ghost-story. It gives a sort of quaint antiquity to the whole, as belonging to the times of ‘ superstitious elde ;’ and those whom we have observed to excel in oral narratives of such a nature, usually study to secure the attention of their audience by employing this art. At least, whether owing to this mode of telling her tale, or to the interest of the story itself, and its appeal to the secret reserve of superstitious feeling which maintains its influence in most hosoms, The Old English Baron has always produced as strong an effect as any story of the kind, although liable to the objections which we have freely stated, without meaning to impeach the talents of the amiable authoress.” (a.)
REEVING, in nautical language, the putting a rope through a block. Hence to pull a rope out of a block, is called
unreeving.
REFECTION, amongst ecclesiastics, a spare meal or repast, just sufficient for the support of life. Hence the hall in convents, and other communities, where the monks, nuns, and others, take their refections or meals in common, is called the
refectory.
REFLECTION, the return or progressive motion of a moving body, occasioned by some obstacle which prevented it from pursuing its former direction.
Circular Instrument of Reflection,
an instrument for measuring angles to a very great degree of accuracy. It was invented
hy
the celebrated astronomer Mayer of Gottingen, principally with a view to do away the errors of the divisions of the limb ; and has since been much improved by the Chevalier de Borda, and by Magellan. This instrument is particularly applicable to the measuring of the distances of the heavenly bodies, and was used by the French in their part of the operation undertaken for determining the difference of the meridians of Paris and Greenwich.
Reflection of Light.
See Optics.
Reflection is also used figuratively, to signify an operation of the mind, by which it turns its vjew as it were inwards upon itself, and makes itself and its own operations the object of its disquisition ; and by contemplating the manner, order, and laws, which it observes in perceiving ideas, comparing them together, reasoning, and judging, it frames new ideas of the relations discovered therein. See Metaphysics.
REFLEX, in
Painting,
means those places in a picture which are supposed to be illuminated by light reflected from some other body in the same piece.
REFLUX, the backward course of water, has the same meaning as the ebbing of the sea, and is opposed to the flood, flux, or flowing of the sea.
REFORM means a change from worse to better, a reestablishment or revival of former neglected discipline, or a correction of abuses.
REFORMATION is, in general, the act of reforming or correcting an error or abuse in religion, discipline, or the like. By way of eminence, the word is used for that great alteration and reformation in the corrupted system of Christianity, commenced by Luther in the year 1517.
Before the period of
tlle
Reformation, the pope had declared himself the sovereign of the whole world. All the parts of it which were inhabited by those who were not Christians, he accounted the same as if they were uninhabited ; and if those who called themselves Christians resolved on occupying any of those countries, he gave them full liberty to make war upon the inhabitants without any provocation. The countries, if conquered, were to be parcelled out according to the pope’s pleasure ; and dreadful was the situation of that prince who refused to obey the will of the sovereign pontiff. In consequence of this extraordinary authority which the pope had assumed, he at last granted to the king of Portugal all the countries to the eastward of Cape Nun in Africa, and to the king of Spain all the countries to the westward of that point or headland. In this, according to the opinions of some, was completed in his person the character of Antichrist sitting in the temple of God, and showing himself as God (2 Thess. ii. 4). He had long before, say they, assumed in spiritual matters the supremacy belonging to the Deity himself ; and now he assumed the same supremacy in temporal affairs, giving the extreme regions of the earth to whomsoever he pleased. The Reformation, therefore, they consider as the immediate effect of divine power taking vengeance on this and all other deviations from the system of truth ; whilst others regard it merely as an effect of natural causes, which might have been foreseen and prevented, without abridging the papal power in any considerable degree.
Be this as it may, however, the partition above mentioned was the last piece of insolence which the pope ever had,
or in all probability ever will have, it in his power to exercise, in the way of parcelling out the globe amongst his adherents. Everything was quiet, every heretic had been exterminated, and the whole Christian world supinely acquiesced in the enormous absurdities which were inculcated upon them ; when, in 1517, a spirit of inquiry arose, and the empire of superstition began to decline. The person who made the first attack on the extravagant superstitions then prevalent was Martin Luther. By some it is pretended that the only motive which Luther had in beginning the Reformation was his enmity to the Dominicans, who had excluded his order, the Augustinians, from all share in the gainful traffic of indulgences. But this does not seem at all probable, for such a motive would not naturally lead him to deny the virtue of indulgences, whilst his conduct could not but exclude him for ever from any chance of a share in the traffic, which otherwise he might perhaps have obtained. Besides, this traffic was so contrary to the common principles of reason and honesty, that we cannot wonder at finding one man in the world who had sense enough to discern it, and virtue enough to oppose such a disgraceful practice. In all probability, however, the insignificance of the first reformer was the reason why he was not persecuted and exterminated at the very outset, as others had been before him. Another reason probably might be, that he did not at once attack the whole errors of Popery, but brought about his reformation gradually, probably as it occurred to himself.
The Reformation commenced in the city of Wittenberg in Saxony, but was not long confined either to that city or to the province in which it is situated. In 1520 the Franciscan friars, who had the care of promulgating indulgences in Switzerland, were opposed by Zuinglius, a man not inferior in understanding and knowledge to Luther himself. He proceeded with the greatest vigour to overturn the whole fabric of Popery ; but his opinions were declared to be erroneous by the universities of Cologne and Louvain. Notwithstanding this, the magistrates of Zurich approved of his proceedings ; and the whole of that canton, together with those of Berne, Basil, and Schauffhausen, embraced his opinions.
In Germany, Luther continued to make great advances, without being in the least intimidated by the ecclesiastical censures which were thundered against him from all quarters. Continually protected by the German princes, either from religious or political motives, his adversaries could not accomplish his destruction as they had done that of others. Those princes who were upon bad terms with the court of Rome took advantage of the success of tlle new doctrines, and in their own dominions easily overturned a church which had lost all respect and veneration amongst the inferior ranks. The court of Rome had disobliged some of the smaller princes in the north of Germany, whom the pope probably thought too insignificant to be worth managing ; and they, in revenge, universally established the Reformation in their own dominions. Melancthon, Carlostadt, and other men of eminence, also greatly forwarded the work of Luther ; and in all probability the papal hierarchy would have soon come to an end, in the northern parts of Europe at least, had not the Emperor Charles V. given a severe check to the progress of the Reformation in Germany. In order to follow out the schemes dictated by his ambition, he thought it necessary to ingratiate himself with the pope ; and tlle most effectual method of doing this seemed to be by the destruction of Luther. The pope’s legates insisted that Luther ought to be condemned by the Diet of Worms, as a most notorious, avowed, and incorrigible heretic. This however appeared unjust to the members of the diet, and he was summoned to appear personally, which he accordingly did without hesitation. There is not the least doubt that his appearance there would have been his last in this world, if the astonishing respect that was paid him, and the crowds who came daily to see him, had not deterred his judges from employing summary means against the author of such a heresy. He was therefore permitted to depart w’ith a safe-conduct for a certain time ; after which he remained in the state of a proscribed or intercommuned criminal, to whom it was unlawful to perform any of the ordinary offices of humanity.
During the confinement of Luther in a castle near Warburg, the Reformation advanced rapidly, almost every city in Saxony embracing the Lutheran opinions. At this time an alteration in the established forms bf worship was first adventured upon at Wittenberg, by abolishing the celebration of private masses, and giving the cup as well as the bread to the laity in the Lord’s Supper. In a short time, however, the new opinions were condemned by the university of Paris, and a refutation of them was attempted by Henry VIII. of England. But Luther was not to be thus intimidated. He published his animadversions on both with as much acrimony as if he had been refuting the meanest adversary ; and a controversy managed by such illustrious antagonists attracted general attention, the Reformers daily gaining new converts both in France and England.
But whilst the efforts of Luther were thus everywhere crowned with success, the divisions began to prevail which have since so much agitated the reformed churches. The first dispute occurred between Luther and Zuinglius concerning the manner in which the body and blood of Christ were present in the Eucharist. Luther and his followers, although they had rejected the notion of transubstantiation, were nevertheless of opinion that the body and blood of Christ were really present in the Lord’s Supper, in a way which they could not pretend to explain. Carlostadt, who was Luther’s colleague, first suggested another view of the subject, which was afterwards confirmed and illustrated by Zuinglius, namely, that the body and blood of Christ were not really present in the Eucharist ; and that the bread and wine were no more than external symbols to excite the remembrance of Christ’s sufferings in the minds of those who received it. Both parties maintained their tenets with the utmost obstinacy, and, by their divisions, first gave their adversaries an argument against them, which to this day tlle Catholics urge with great force ; alleging that the Protestants are so divided that it is impossible to know who is right or who is wrong ; and arguing from these divisions, that the whole doctrine is false.
To these intestine divisions were added the horrors of a< civil w, ar, occasioned by oppression on the one hand, and by enthusiasm on the other. In 1525, a great number of seditious fanatics arose on a sudden in different parts of Germany ; and having taken arms, they united their forces, and made war against the empire, laying waste the country with fire and sword, and committing everywhere the most barbarous cruelties. The greater part of this furious mob was composed of peasants and vassals, who groaned under heavy burdens, and declared that they were no longer able to bear the despotic government of their chiefs ; and hence this sedition received the name of the Rustic War, or the War of the Peasants. At first this rabble declared, that they had no other motives than the redress of their grievances ; but no sooner had the enthusiast Munster, the Anabaptist, placed himself at their head, than the face of things was entirely changed, and the civil commotions in Saxony and Thuringia rapidly increased. (See the article Anabapt!sts.)
In the mean time Frederick, surnamed the Wise, elector of Saxony, and Luther’s great patron, departed this life, and was succeeded by his brother John. Frederick, though he had protected and encouraged Luther, yet was at no pains to introduce the reformed religion into his dominions. But w’ith his successor it proved otherwise ; for he, being convinced that Luther’s doctrine must soon be totally destroyed
and suppressed unless it received a speedy and effectual support, ordered Luther and Melancthon to draw up a body of laws relating to the form of ecclesiastical government, the method of public worship, and other necessary matters, which were to be proclaimed by heralds throughout his dominions. This example was followed by all the princes and states of Germany who had renounced the papal supremacy ; and a similar form of worship, discipline, and government, was thus introduced into all the churches which had dissented from that of Rome. This open renunciation of the ancient ecclesiastical jurisdiction changed the face of affairs ; and the patrons of Popery intimated, in a manner not at all ambiguous, that they intended to make war upon the Lutheran party. On the other hand, the Lutherans, apprised of these hostile intentions, began to deliberate on a proper plan of defence against the attack with which they were threatened.
The Diet of the Empire assembled in the year 1526, at Spires, where the emperor’s ambassadors were desired to use their utmost endeavours to suppress all disputes about religion, and to insist upon the rigorous execution of the sentence which had been pronounced against Luther and his followers at Worms. The greater part of the German princes, however, opposed this motion with the utmost resolution ; declaring that they could neither execute the sentence, nor come to any determination with regard to the doctrines by which it had been occasioned, before the whole matter had been submitted to the decision of a council lawfully assembled ; and further alleging, that the decision of controversies of this nature belonged properly to a general council, and to it alone. This opinion, after long and warm debates, was adopted by a majority, and at length consented to by the whole assembly. It was unanimously agreed to present a solemn address to the emperor, entreating him to assemble, without delay, a general council ; whilst in the mean time it was also agreed, that the princes of the empire should, in their respective dominions, be at liberty to manage ecclesiastical affairs in the manner they should think most proper, yet so as to be able to give to God and the emperor a proper account of their administration whenever it should be required of them.
These resolutions proved exceedingly favourable to the cause of reformation. Neither had the emperor, for some time, any leisure to give disturbance to the reformed. The war, which about this time ensued between him and the pope, gave the greatest advantage to the friends of the reformed, and considerably augmented their number. Several princes, whom the fear of persecution and punishment had hitherto prevented from lending their assistance, publicly renounced the Catholic religion, and introduced amongst their subjects the same forms of religious worship, and the same system of doctrine, which had been received in Saxony. Others, though placed in such circumstances as discouraged them from acting in an open manner against the interests of the Roman pontiff, were, however, far from discovering the smallest opposition to those who withdrew the people from his despotic yoke ; nor did they molest the private assemblies of those who had separated themselves from the communion of Rome. And, in general, all the Germans who, before these resolutions of the Diet of Spires, had rejected the papal discipline and doctrine, were now, in consequence of the liberty they enjoyed, wholly employed in bringing their schemes and plans to a certain degree of consistence, and in adding vigour and firmness to the cause in which they -were engaged.
But this tranquillity and liberty were not of long duration. In the year 1529, a new diet was assembled at the same place by the emperor, after he had quieted the troubles in various parts of his dominions, and concluded a peace with the pope. The power which had been granted to princes, of managing ecclesiastical affairs until the meeting of a general council, was now revoked by a majority of votes ; and every
change declared unlawful that should be introduced into the doctrine, discipline, or worship of the established religion, before the determination of the approaching council was known. This decree was considered as iniquitous and intolerable by the Elector of Saxony, the Landgrave of Hesse, and other members of the diet, who were persuaded of the necessity of a reformation. The promise of speedily assembling a general council they looked upon as an artifice of the Church of Rome, conceiving that a free and lawful council would be the last thing to which the pope would consent.
When, therefore, they found that all their arguments and remonstrances made no impression upon Ferdinand, the emperor’s brother, who presided in the diet, Charles himself being then at Barcelona, they entered a solemn protest against this decree on the 19th of April, and appealed to the emperor and a future council. Hence arose the denomination of Protestants, which from this period has been given to those who separated from the communion of the Church of Rome. The princes of the empire who entered this protest, were John elector of Saxony, George elector of Brandenburg, Ernest and Francis dukes of Lunenburg, the Landgrave of Hcsse, and the Prince of Anhalt ; and they were seconded by thirteen imperial towns, viz. Strasburg, Ulm, Nuremberg, Constance, Windsheim, Memmin-gen, Nordlingen, Lindau, Kempton, Heilbron, Wissem-burg, and St Gall.
The dissenting princes, who were besides the protectors and heads of the reformed churches, had no sooner entered their protest, than they sent proper persons to the emperor, who was then upon his passage from Spain to Italy, to acquaint him with their proceedings in this matter. The ministers employed in this commission executed it with the greatest intrepidity and presence of mind ; but the emperor, exasperated at the audacity of those who presumed to differ from him, caused the ambassadors to be arrested. The news of this violent step made the Protestant princes conclude that their personal safety, and the success of their cause, depended entirely upon their own courage and their union. They therefore determined to enter into a solemn confederacy ; and for this purpose they held several meetings at Rot, Nuremberg, Smalcald, and other places; but so different were their opinions and views, that for a time they could determine upon nothing.
One great obstacle to the intended confederacy was the dispute which had arisen between Luther and Zuinglius, concerning the real presence of Christ in the Lord’s Supper. To terminate this dispute, if possible, Philip, landgrave of Hesse, in the year 1529 invited to a conference at Marpurg, Luther and Zuinglius, together with several other of the more eminent doctors who adhered to the respective parties of these contending chiefs. But this measure was not attended with the salutary effects which were expected from it. The divines disputed for four days in presence of the landgrave. Luther attacked Œcolampa-dius, and Zuinglius was attacked by Melancthon. Zuin-glius was accused of heresy, not only on account of his explanation of the nature and design of the Lord’s Supper, but also in consequence of the false notions which he was supposed to have adopted concerning the divinity of Christ, the efficacy of the Divine Word, original sin, and some other parts of the Christian doctrine. This illustrious reformer, however, cleared himself from the greater part of these charges with the most triumphant evidence, and in such a manner as appeared satisfactory even to Luther himself. But their dissension concerning the manner of Christ’s presence in the Eucharist still remained ; nor could either of the contending parties be persuaded to abandon, or even to modify, their opinions upon that matter. The only advantage, therefore, which resulted from the meeting was, that the jarring doctors formed a kind of truce, by agreeing
to a mutual toleration of their sentiments, and leaving to the disposal of Providence the cure of their divisions.
In the mean time, news were received that the emperor designed to come into Germany, with a view to terminate all religious differences at the approaching Diet of Augsburg. Having foreseen some of the consequences of those disputes, and, besides, taken the opinion of men of wisdom, sagacity, and experience, he became at certain times more cool in his proceedings, and more impartial in his opinions respecting the contending parties and the merits of the cause. He, therefore, in an interview with the pope at Bologna, insisted, in the most serious and urgent manner, on the necessity of a general council. His remonstrances and expostulations, however, could not move the pontiff, who maintained with zeal the papal prerogatives ; reproached the emperor with an ill-judged clemency ; and alleged that it was the duty of that prince to support the church, and to execute speedy vengeance upon that obstinate heretical faction who had dared to call in question the authority of Rome. To this discourse the emperor paid no regard, looking upon it as a most iniquitous thing, and a measure directly opposite to the laws of the empire, to condemn unheard so many men who had always approved themselves good citizens, and in other respects deserved well of their country.
Hitherto indeed it was not easy for the emperor to form a clear idea of the matters in debate, since no regular system had as yet been composed, by which it might be known with certainty what were the true causes of Luther’s opposition to the pope. The Elector of Saxony, therefore, ordered Luther, and other eminent divines, to commit to writing the chief articles of their religious system, and tlle principal points in which they differed from the Church of Rome. Luther, in compliance with this order, delivered to the elector at Torgau seventeen articles which had been agreed upon in a conference at Sulzbach in 1529, and hence these received the name of the Articles of Torgau. But though these were deemed by Luther a sufficient declaration of the sentiments of the reformers, yet it was judged proper to enlarge them, in order to give perspicuity to their arguments, and strength to their cause. In this work Melancthon was employed ; but in it he showed a proper deference to the counsels of Luther, expressing his sentiments and doctrine with the greatest elegance and perspicuity, and thus came forth the famous Confession of Augsburg.
On the l5th of June 1530, Charles arrived at Augsburg, and the diet was opened five days afterwards. The Protestants received a formal permission to present an account of their tenets to the diet on the 25th of the same month ; and in consequence of this, at the time appointed, Christian Bayer, chancellor of Saxony, read aloud, in the German language, before the emperor and the princes assembled, the Confession of Augsburg above mentioned. It contained twenty-eight chapters, of which twenty-one were employed in representing the religious opinions of the Protestants, and the other seven in pointing out the errors and superstitions of the Church of Rome. The princes heard it with the deepest attention. It confirmed some in the principles which they had embraced ; it surprised others, who had not given much consideration to the subject ; and many, who before this time had little or no idea of the religious sentiments of Luther, were now not only convinced of their innocence, but delighted with their purity and simplicity. The copies of this Confession, after being read, were delivered to the emperor, being signed by John elector of Saxony, George marquis of Brandenburg, Ernest duke of Lunenburg, Philip landgrave of Hesse, Wolfgang prince of Anhalt, and by the imperial cities of Nuremberg and Reutlingen.
The creatures of the Church of Rome who were present at this diet employed John Faber, afterwards bishop of
Vienna, together with Eckius1 and another doctor, to draw up a refutation of the Protestant Confession ; and this having been publicly read, the emperor required the Protestant members to acquiesce in it, and put an end to the religious disputes by an unlimited submission to the opinions and doctrines contained in this answer. But this demand was far from being complied with. The Protestants, on the contrary, declared that they were by no means satisfied with the reply of their adversaries, and earnestly desired a copy of it, that they might more fully demonstrate its extreme insufficiency and weakness. But this reasonable request was refused by the emperor, who interposed his supreme authority to prevent any further proceedings in this matter, and solemnly prohibited the publication of any new writings or declarations which might contribute to protract these religious debates. This, however, did not reduce the Protestants to silence. The divines of that communion who had been present at the diet endeavoured to recollect the arguments and objections employed by Faber, and had again recourse to the pen of Melancthon, who refuted them in an ample and satisfactory manner, in a piece which w, as presented to the emperor on the 22d of September, but which Charles refused to receive. This answer was afterwards enlarged by Melancthon, when he had obtained a copy of Faber’s reply ; and was published in the year 1531, with tlle other pieces that related to the doctrine and discipline of the Lutheran church, under the title of Defence of the Confession of Augsburg.
Matters now began to draw tow ards a crisis. 1 here were only three ways of bringing to a conclusion these religious differences : First, to grant the Protestants a toleration and privilege of serving God as they thought proper ; secondly, to compel them to return to the Church of Rome by the violent methods of persecution ; or, thirdly, that a reconciliation should be made, upon fair, and candid, and equitable terms, by engaging each of the parties to temper their zeal with moderation, to abate reciprocally the rigour of their pretensions, and to remit something of their respective claims. The third expedient was most generally approved of, being peculiarly agreeable to all who had at heart the welfare of the empire ; nor did even the pope seem to look upon it with aversion or contempt. Various conferences therefore were held betw een persons eminent for piety and learning upon both sides ; and nothing was omitted which might have the least tendency to calm the animosities and heal the divisions which reigned between the contending parties. But the differences were too great to admit of a reconciliation ; and therefore the votaries of Rome had recourse to the powerful arguments of imperial edicts, and the force of the secular arm. On the 19th of November, a severe decree was issued by order of the emperor, in which everything was manifestly adapted to deject the friends of religious liberty, excepting only a faint and dubious promise of engaging the pope to assemble a general council about six months after the separation of the diet. In this decree the dignity and excellence of the Catholic religion were extolled beyond measure ; a new degree of severity and force was added to that which had been published at Worms against Luther and his adherents ; the changes which had been introduced into the doctrine and discipline of tlle Protestant churches were severely censured ; and a solemn order was addressed to thc princes, cities, and states, w’ho had thrown off the papal yoke, to return to their allegiance to Rome, on pain of incurring the indignation and vengeance of the emperor, as the patron and protector of the church.
Of this formidable decree the Elector of Saxony and the confederated princes were no sooner informed than they assembled in order to deliberate on the measures proper to be taken in such an emergency. In the years 1530 and 1531 they met, first at Smalcald, and afterwards at Francfort,
where they formed a solemn alliance and confederacy, with the intention of defending vigorously their religion and liberties against the dangers and encroachments with which they were threatened by the edict of Augsburg, without attempting, however, any thing offensive against the votaries of Rome ; they invited the kings of England, France, and Denmark, to join this confederacy, leaving no means unemployed that might strengthen and cement so important an idliance.
This confederacy was at first opposed by Luther, from an apprehension of the calamities and troubles which it might produce ; but at last, perceiving the necessity of concert, he consented, though he uncharitably, as well as imprudently, refused to comprehend in it the followers of Zuing-lius amongst the Swiss, as well as the German states and cities which had adopted the sentiments and confession of Bucer. In the invitation addressed to Henry VIII. of England, whom the confederate princes were willing to declare the head and protector of their league, the following things, amongst others, were expressly stipulated : That the king should encourage, promote, and maintain, the true doctrine of Christ as it was contained in the Confession of Augsburg, and defend the same at the next general council ; that he should not agree to any council summoned by the bishop of Rome, but protest against it, and neither submit to its decrees, nor suffer them to be respected in his dominions ; that he should never allow the Roman pontiff to have any pre-eminence or jurisdiction in his dominions, and should advance 100,000 crowns for the use of the confederacy, engaging to double the sum if necessary : all which articles the confederate princes were equally obliged to observe upon their part. To these demands the king replied, that he would maintain and promote the true doctrine of Christ ; but, at the same time, as the true ground of that doctrine lay only in the Holy Scriptures, he would not accept at any one’s hand what should be his own faith, or that of his kingdom ; and therefore desired that they would send over two learned men to confer with him, in order to promote a religious union between him and the confederates. He, however, declared himself of their opinion with regard to the meeting of a free general council, and promised to join with them in all such councils for the defence of the true doctrine ; but he thought the regulation of the ceremonial part of religion, being comparatively a matter of indifference, should be left to the choice of each sovereign for his own dominions. Subsequently the king gave them a second and more satisfactory answer ; but after the execution of Anne Boleyn, this negotiation came to nothing. On the one hand, the king grew cold when he perceived that the confederates were no longer of use to him in supporting the validity of his marriage ; and, on the other, the German princes became sensible that they could never succeed with Henry, unless they allowed him an absolute dictatorship in matters of religion.
Whilst everything thus tended to an open war between the opposite parties, the Elector Palatine and the Elector of Mentz offered their mediation, and endeavoured to bring about a reconciliation. The emperor himself, for various reasons, w, as at this time inclined to peace. For, on the one hand, he stood in need of succours against the Turks, which the Protestant princes refused to grant as long as the edicts of Worms and Augsburg remained in force ; and, on the other, the election of his brother Ferdinand to the dignity of king of the Romans, which had been carried by a majority of votes at the Diet of Cologne in 1531, was by the same princes contested, as being contrary to the fundamental laws of the empire. In consequence of all this, after many negotiations and projects of reconciliation, a treaty of peace was concluded at Nuremberg in 1532, between the emperor and the Protestant princes, on the following conditions, viz. That the latter should furnish a subsidy for
carrying on the war against the Turks, and acknowledge Ferdinand as lawful king of the Romans ; and that the emperor upon his part should abrogate and annul the edicts of Worms and Augsburg, and allow the Lutherans the free and undisturbed exercise of their religious doctrine and discipline, until a rule of faith should be fixed either in the free general council which was to be assembled in the space of six months, or in a diet of the empire.
Soon after the conclusion of the peace of Nuremberg, died JoIm elector of Saxony, who was succeeded by his son John Frederick, a prince Ofinvincible fortitude and magnanimity, but whose reign was little better than one continued series of disappointments and calamities. The religious truce, however, gave new vigour to the Reformation. Those who had hitherto been only secret enemies of the Roman pontiff, now publicly threw off his yoke ; and various cities and provinces of Germany enlisted themselves under the religious banners of Luther. On the other hand, as the emperor had now no other hope of terminating the religious disputes except by the meeting of a general council, he repeated his request to the ι>ontiff that such a council should be assembled. But Pope Clement VII., whom the history of past councils filled with the greatest uneasiness, endeavoured to retard what he could not with decency refuse. At last, in the year 1533, he made a proposal by his legate to assemble a council at Mantua, Piacenza, or Bologna ; but the Protestants refused their consent to the nomination of an Italian council, and insisted that a controversy which had its rise in the heart of Germany should be determined within the limits of the empire. The pope, by his usual artifices, eluded compliance with thisdemand, and, in 1534, he was cut off by death, before any determination could be come to. His successor Paul III. seemed to show less reluctance to the assembling of a general council, and in 1535 expressed his inclination to convoke one at Mantua ; and, the year following, he actually sent circular letters for that purpose throughout all the states and kingdoms under his jurisdiction. Tllis council was summoned by a bull issued on tlle 2d of June 1536, to meet at Mantua in the Ibllowingyear. But several obstacles prevented its meeting ; one of the most material of which was, that Frederick duke of Mantua had no inclination to receive at once so many guests, some of them very turbulent, into the place of his residence. On the other hand, the Protestants were firmly persuaded that, as the council was to be assembled in Italy, and by the authority of the pope alone, the latter must have an undue influence in that assembly; and, consequently, that all things would be carried by the votaries of Rome. For this reason they assembled in the year 1537 at Smalcald, where they solemnly protested against this partial and corrupt council, and, at the same time, had a new summary of their doctrine drawn up by Luther, in order to present it to the assembled bishops if it should be required of them. This summary, which received the title of the Articles of Smalcald, is commonly conjoined with the creeds and confessions of the Lutheran church.
After the meeting of the general council in Mantua had thus been prevented, many schemes of accommodation were proposed both by the emperor and by the Protestants ; but, by the artifices of the Church of Rome, all of them came to nothing. In 1541, the emperor appointed a conference to be held at Worms on the subject of religion, between persons of piety and learning chosen from the contending parties. This conference, however, was, for certain reasons, removed to the diet which was to be held at Ratisbon that year, and in which the principal subject of deliberation was a memorial presented by a person unknown, containing a project of peace. But the conference produced no other effect than a mutual agreement of the contending parties to refer their matters to a general council, or, if the meeting of such a council should be prevented, to the next German Diet.
This resolution was rendered ineffectual by a variety of ι incidents, which widened the breach, and put off to a future day the deliberations which were designed to heal it- The pope ordered his legate to declare to the Diet of Spires, .assembled in 1542, that he would, according to the promise he had already made, assemble a general council, and that Trent should be the place of its meeting, if the diet had no objection to that city. Ferdinand, and the princes who adhered to the cause of the pope, gave their consent to this proposal ; but it was vehemently ‘objected to by the Protestants, both because the council was summoned by the authority of the pope only, and also because the place was within the jurisdiction of his holiness ; whereas they desired a free council, which should not be biassed by the dictates nor awed by the proximity of the pontiff. But this protestation produced no effect. Paul III. persisted in his purpose, and issued his circular letters for the convocation of the council, with the approbation of the emperor. In justice to this pontiff, however, it must be acknowledged, that he showed that he was not averse to every reformation. He appointed four cardinals, and three other persons eminent for their learning, to draw up a scheme for the reformation of tlle church in general, and of that of Rome in particular. The reformation proposed in this plan was indeed extremely superficial and partial ; yet it contained some particulars which could scarcely have been expected from those who composed it. They complained of the pride and ignorance of the bishops, and proposed that none should receive orders but learned and pious men ; and that care should therefore be taken to have proper masters for the instruction of youth. They condemned translations from one benefice to another, with grants of reservation, non-residence, and pluralities. They proposed that some convents should be abolished ; that the liberty of the press should be restrained and limited ; that the colloquies of Erasmus should be suppressed ; that no ecclesiastic should enjoy a benefice out of his own country ; that no cardinal should have a bishopric ; that the questors of St Anthony and several other saints should be abolished ; and, which was the best of all their proposals, that the effects and personal estates of ecclesiastics should be given to the poor. They concluded with complaining of the prodigious number of indigent and ragged priests who frequented St Peter’s church ; and declared, that it was a great scandal to see prostitutes lodged so magnificently at Rome, and riding through the streets on fine mules, whilst the cardinals and other ecclesiastics accompanied them in the most courteous manner. This plan of reformation was turned into ridicule by Luther and Sturmius ; and indeed it left unredressed the greatest grievances of which the Protestants complained.
All this time the emperor had been labouring to persuade the Protestants to consent to the meeting of the council at Trent ; but when he found them fixed in their opposition to the measure, he began to listen to the sanguinary measures of the pope, and resolved to terminate the disputes by force of arms. Upon this the Elector of Saxony and the Landgrave of Hesse, who were the chief supporters of the Protestant cause, took proper measures to prevent their being surprised and overwhelmed by a superior force ; but, before the horrors of war commenced, Luther died in peace at Ayselben, the place of his nativity, in the year 1546.
The emperor and the pope had mutually resolved on the destruction of all who should dare to oppose the council of Trent. The meeting of this council was to serve as a signal for taking up arms ; and accordingly its deliberations were scarcely commenced in 1546, when the Protestants perceived undoubted signs of the approaching storm, and of a formidable union between the emperor and pope, which threatened to overwhelm them at once. This year indeed there had been a new conference at Ratisbon upon the old subject of accommodating differences in religion ; but from the manner in which the debates were carried on, it appeared plainly that these differences could only be decided in the field of battle. The council of Trent, in the mean time, Promulgatedtheirdecrees; whilst the reformed princes, in the Diet of Ratisbon, protested against their authority, and were on that account proscribed by the emperor, who raised an army to reduce them to obedience.
The Elector of Saxony and the Landgrave of Hesse led their forces into Bavaria against the emperor, and cannonaded his camp near Ingolstadt. It was supposed that this would bring on an engagement, which would probably have bee n advantageous to the cause of the reformed ; but this was prevented, chiefly by the perfidy of Maurice duke of Saxony, who invaded the dominions of his uncle. Divisions were also fomented amongst the confederate princes, by the dissimulation of the emperor, and France failed in paying the subsidy which had been promised by its monarch ; all which so discouraged the heads of the Protestant party, that their army soon dispersed, and the Elector of Saxony was obliged to direct his march homewards. But he was pursued by the emperor, who made several forced marches, wdth a view to overpower the enemy before he could have time to recover his vigour. The two armies met near Mul-berg, on the Elbe, on tlle 24th of April 1547 ; and, after a sanguinary action, the elector was entirely defeated and taken prisoner. Maurice, who had so basely betrayed him, was now declared Elector of Saxony ; and by his entreaties, Philip, landgrave of Hesse, the other chief of the Protestants, was persuaded to throw himself on the mercy of the emperor, and to implore forgiveness. To this he consented, relying on the promise of Charles for obtaining pardon, and being restored to liberty ; but, notwithstanding these expectations, he was unjustly detained prisoner, by a scandalous violation of the most solemn convention. It is said that the emperor retracted his promise, and deluded this unhappy prince by the ambiguity of two German w ords. History indeed can scarcely furnish a parallel to the perfidious, mean-spirited, and despotic behaviour of the emperor in the present case. After having received in public the humble submission of the prince on his knees, and set him at liberty in virtue of a solemn treaty, he caused him to be arrested anew without any reason, nay, without any pretence, and kept him a close prisoner for several years. When Maurice remonstrated against this new confinement, the emperor answered that he had never promised that the landgrave should not be imprisoned anew, but only that he should be exempted from perpetual imprisonment ; and, to support this assertion, he produced the treaty.
The affairs of the Protestants now seemed to be desperate. In the Diet of Augsburg, which was soon afterwards called, the emperor required the Protestants to leave tlle decision of these religious disputes to the wisdom of the council which was to meet at Trent. The greater part of the members consented to this proposal, being convinced by the powerful argument of an imperial army, which was at hand to dispel the darkness from the eyes of such as might Otherwdse have been blind to the force of Charles’s reasoning. However, this general submission did not produce the effect which was expected from it. A plague which broke out, or was said to have done so, in the city, caused the greater part of the bishops to retire to Bologna, by which means the council was in effect dissolved ; nor could all the entreaties and remonstrances of the emperor prevail upon the pope to re-assemble it without delay. During this interval, therefore, the emperor judged it necessary to fall upon some method of accommodating the religious differences, and maintaining peace until the council so long expected should finally be decided on. W’ith this view he ordered Julius Pelugius, bishop of Naumberg, Michael Sido-
nïus, a creature of the pope, and John Agricola, a native of Ayselben1 to draw up a formulary which might serve as a rule of faith and worship, till the council should be assembled. But as this was only a temporary expedient, and had not the force of a permanent or perpetual institution, it thence obtained the name of the Interim.
This project of Charles was formed partly with a design to vent his resentment against the pope, and partly to answer other political purposes. It contained all the essential doctrines of the Church of Rome, though considerably softened by the artful terms which were employed, and which were quite different from those employed before and after this period by the council of Trent. There was even an affected ambiguity in many of the expressions, which made them susceptible of different senses, and applicable to the sentiments of both communions. The consequence of all this was, that the imperial formulary was reprobated by both parties. However, it was promulgated with great solemnity by the emperor at Augsburg. The Elector of Mentz, without even asking the opinion of the princes present, gave a sanction to this formulary, as if he had been commissioned to represent the whole diet. Many remained silent through fear, and that silence was interpreted as a tacit consent. Some who had the courage to oppose it, were reduced by force of arms ; and the most deplorable scenes of bloodshed and violence were enacted throughout the whole empire. Maurice, elector of Saxony, who had hitherto kept neutral, now assembled the whole of his nobility and clergy, in order to deliberate on this critical affair. At the head of the latter was Melancthon, whose word was respected as a law amongst the Protestants. But this man had not the courage of Luther, and was therefore on all occasions ready to make concessions, and to propose schemes of accommodation. In the present case he gave it as his opinion, that the whole of the book called Interim could not by any means be adopted by the Protestants ; but at the same time he declared, that he saw no reason why this book might not be approved, adopted, and received, as an authoritative rule in things that did not relate to the essential parts of religion, and which he accounted indifferent. But this scheme, instead of cementing the differences, rendered them worse than ever ; and produced a division amongst the Protestants themselves, which might have overthrown the Reformation entirely, if the emperor and the
∣
κ>pe had seized the opportunity.
In the year 1549, Pope Paul III. died, and was succeeded by Julius III. who, at the repeated solicitations of the emperor, consented to re-assemble the council of Trent. A diet was again held at Augsburg under the cannon of the imperial army, and Charles laid the matter before the princes of the empire. Most of those present gave their consent to it, and amongst the rest Maurice elector of Saxony, who consented on the following conditions, namely, that the points of doctrine which had already been decided there should be re-examined ; that this examination should be made in presence of the Protestant divines ; that the Saxon Protestants should have the liberty of voting as well as of deliberating in the council ; and that the pope should not pretend to preside in that assembly, either in person or by his legatees. This declaration of Maurice was read in the diet, and his deputies insisted upon its being entered into the registers, which the Archbishop of Mentz obstinately refused. This diet was concluded in the year 1551 ; and, at its breaking up, the emperor desired the assembled princes and states to prepare all things for the approaching council, and promised to use his utmost endeavours to procure moderation and harmony, impartiality and charity, in the transactions of that assembly.
On the breaking up of the diet, the Protestants took such steps as they thought most proper for their own safety. The Saxons employed Melancthon, and the Wurtembergers
Brcngius, to draw up confessions of faith to be laid before the new council. The Saxon divines, however, proceeded no farther than Nuremberg, having received secret orders from Maurice to stop there ; for the elector, perceiving that Charles had formed designs against the liberties of the German princes, resolved to take the most effectual measures for at once crushing his ambition. He therefore entered with the utmost secrecy and expedition into an alliance with the king of France and several of the German princes, for the security of the rights and liberties of the empire ; after which, having assembled a powerful army in 1552, he marched against the emperor, who lay with a handful of troops at Inspruck, expecting no attack from any quarter. By this sudden and unforeseen accident Charles was so much dispirited, that he was willing to make peace almost on any terms. The consequence was, that he concluded a treaty at Passau, which by the Protestants is considered as the basis of their religious liberty. By the first three articles of this treaty, it was agreed that Maurice and the confederates should lay down their arms, and lend their troops to Ferdinand to assist him against the Turks, and that the Landgrave of Hesse should be set at liberty. By the fourth it was agreed that the rule of faith called the Interim should be considered as null rind void ; that the contending parties should enjoy the free and undisturbed exercise of their religion, until a diet should be assembled to determine amicably the present disputes, which diet was to meet in the space of six months ; and that this religious liberty should continue always, in case it should be found impossible to come to an Unifonnity in doctrine and worship. It was also determined, that all those who had suffered banishment, or any other calamity, on account of their having been concerned in the league or war of Smalcald, should be reinstated in their privileges, possessions, and employments; that the imperial chamber at Spiresshouldbe open to the Protestants as well as to the Catholics ; and that there should always be a certain number of Lutherans in that high court. To this peace Albert, marquis of Brandenburg, refused to subscribe, and continued the war against the Roman Catholics, committing such ravages in the empire that a confederacy was at last formed against him. At the head of this conspiracy was Maurice, elector of Saxony, who died of a wound received in a battle fought in 1553.
The assembling of the diet promised by Charles was delayed by various incidents ; however, it met at Augsburg in 1555, where it was opened by Ferdinand in name of the emperor, and terminated those deplorable calamities which had so long desolated the empire. After various debates, the following acts were passed, on the 25th of September, viz. That the Protestants who followed the Confession of Augsburg should be for the future considered as entirely free from the jurisdiction of the Roman pontiff, and from the authority and superintendence of the bishops ; that they were left at perfect liberty to enact laws for themselves relating to their religious sentiments, discipline, and worship ; that all the inhabitants of the German empire should be allowed to judge for themselves in religious matters, and to join that church whose doctrine and worship they thought the purest and most consonant to the spirit of true Christianity ; and that all those who should injure or persecute any person under religious pretences, and on account of their opinions, should be declared and proceeded against as public enemies of the empire, invaders of its liberty, and disturbers of its peace.
Thus was the Reformation established in many parts of the German empire, where it continues to this day ; nor have the efforts of the Catholic powers at any time been able to suppress it, or even to prevent it from gaining ground. It was not, however, in Germany alone that a reformation of religion took place. About the same time almost all the kingdoms of Europe began to open their eyes to the truth.
The reformed religion was propagated in Sweden, soon after Luther’s rupture with the Church of Rome, by one of his disciples, named Olaus Petri. The zealous efforts of this missionary were· seconded by Gustavus Vasa, whom the Swedes had raised to the throne instead of Christiem king of Denmark, who by his horrid barbarity lost the crown. This prince, however, was as prudent as he was zealous ; and, as the minds of the Swedes were in a fluctuating state, he wisely avoided all kind of vehemence and precipitation in spreading the new doctrine. Accordingly, the first object of his attention was the instruction of his people in the sacred doctrines of the Holy Scriptures ; and for this purpose he invited into his dominions several learned Germans, and spread abroad throughout the kingdom the Swedish translation of the Bible which had been made by Olaus Petri. Some time after this, in 1526, he appointed a conference at Upsal, between this reformer and Peter Gallius, a zealous defender of the ancient faith, in which each of the champions was to bring forth his arguments, that it might be seen on which side lay the truth. In this dispute Olaus obtained a signal victory, which contributed much to confirm Gustavus in his persuasion of the truth of Luther’s doctrine, and to promote its progress in Sweden. The following year another event gave the finishing stroke to its propagation and success. This was the assembly of the states at Westeraas, where Gustavus recommended the doctrine of the reformers w’ith such zeal, that, after warm debates fomented by the clergy, it was unanimously resolved that the reformation introduced by Luther should be adopted in Sweden. This resolution was principally owing to the firmness and magnanimity of Gustavus, who declared publicly, that he would lay down the sceptre and retire from the kingdom, rather than rule a people enslaved by the orders and authority of the pope, and more controlled by the tyranny of their bishops than by the law s of their monarch. From this time the papal empire in Sweden was entirely overthrown, and Gustavus declared head of the church.
In Denmark, the Reformation was introduced as early as the year 1521, in consequence of the ardent desire discovered by Christiern II. of having his subjects instructed in the doctrines of Luther. This monarch, notwithstanding his cruelty, for which his name has been rendered odious, was nevertheless desirous of delivering his dominions from the tyranny of the Church of Rome. For this purpose, in the year 1520, he sent for Martin Reinard, one of the disciples of Carlostadt, and appointed him professor of divinity at Hafnia ; and after the death of this man, which happened in 1521, he invited Carlostadt himself to fill that important place. Carlostadt accepted of this office, indeed, but in a short time returned to Germany ; upon which Christiern used his utmost endeavours, but in vain, to engage Luther to visit his dominions. However, the progress of Christiern in reforming the religion of his subjects, or rather of advancing his own power above that of the church, was checked, in the year 1523, by a conspiracy, in consequence of which he was deposed and banished ; his uncle Frederick, duke of Holstein and Sleswick, being appointed his successor.
Frederick conducted the Reformation with much gτeater prudence than his predecessor. He permitted the Protestant doctors to preach publicly the sentiments of Luther, but did not venture to change the established government and discipline of the church. However, he contributed greatly to the progress of the Reformation, by his successful attempts in favour of religious liberty, in an assembly of the states held at Odensee in 1527. Here he procured the publication of a famous edict, by which every subject of Denmark was declared free to adhere either to the tenets of the Church of Rome or to the doctrine of Luther. The papal tyranny was totally destroyed by his successor Chris-tiern III. Hebeganbysuppressingthedespoticauthorityof
the bishops, and restoring to their lawful owners a great part of the wealth and possessions which the church had acquired by various stratagems. This was followed by a plan of religious doctrine, worship, and discipline, laid down by Bu-genhagius, whom the king had sent for from Wittenberg for tlle purpose ; and in 1539 an assembly of the states at Odensee gave their solemn sanction to all these transactions.
In France, also, the Reformation began very early to make some progress. Margaret queen of Navarre, and sister of Francis I. the perpetual rival of Charles V. was a great friend to the new doctrine ; and it appears that, as early as the year 1523, there were, in several of the provinces of France, great numbers of people who had conceived the greatest aversion both to the doctrine and tyranny of the Church of Rome, amongst whom were many of the first rank and dignity, and even some of the episcopal order. But as their number increased daily, and troubles and commotions were excited in several places on account of the religious differences, the authority of the king intervened, and many persons eminent for their virtue and piety were put to death in the most barbarous manner. Indeed, Francis, who had either no religion at all, or, at best, no fixed and consistent system of religious principles, conducted himself towards the Protestants in such a manner as best answered his private views. Sometimes he resolved to invite Mclancthon into France, probably with a view to please his sister the queen of Navarre, whom he loved tenderly, and who had strongly imbibed the Protestant principles. At other times he exercised the greatest cruelty towards the reformed ; and once made the following absurd declaration, that if he thought the blood in his arm was tainted by the Lutheran heresy, he w'ould have it cut off ; and that he would not spare even his own children, if they entertained sentiments contrary to those of the Catholic church. About this time Calvin began to attract the attention of the public, but more especially that of the queen of Navarre. His zeal exposed him to danger; and as Francis was daily committing to the flames the friends of the reformation, he was placed more than once in the most perilous situation, from which he was only delivered by the interposition of the queen of Navarre. He therefore retired from France to Basil in Switzerland, where he published his Christian Institutions, and afterwards became so famous in the history of Protestantism.
Those amongst the French who first renounced the jurisdiction of the Church of Rome are commonly called Lutherans by the writers of those early times. Hence it has been supposed that they had all imbibed the peculiar sentiments of Luther. But this appears not to have been the case : for the vicinity of the cities of Geneva, Lausanne, and some others, which had adopted the doctrine of Calvin, produced a remarkable effect upon the French Protestant churches ; insomuch that, about the middle of this century, they all entered into communion with the church of Geneva. The French Protestants were, by way of contempt, called Huguenots by their adversaries. Their fate was very severe, being persecuted with unparalleled fury ; and though several princes of the blood, and many of the first nobility, had embraced their sentiments, yet in no part of the world did the reformers suffer so much. At last all commotions were quelled by the fortitude and magnanimity of Henry IV., who in the year 1598 granted all his subjects full liberty of conscience by the famous edict of Nantes, and seemed to have thoroughly established the Reformation throughout his dominions. During the minority of Louis XIV. however, this edict was revoked by Cardinal Maza-rin, since which time the Protestants have often been cruelly persecuted ; nor was the profession of the reformed religion in France at any time so safe as in most of the other countries of Europe.
Iu the other parts of Europe the opposition to the Church
of Rome was but faint and ambiguous before the Diet of Augsburg. Prior to that period, however, it appears, from undoubted testimony, that the doctrine of Luther had made a considerable, though probably secret, progress throughout Spain, Hungary, Bohemia, Britain, Poland, and the Netherlands ; and had in all these countries gained many friends, of whom several repaired to Wittenberg, in order to enlarge their knowledge by means of Luther’s conversation. Some of these countries threw off entirely the yoke of Rome, and in others a prodigious number of families embraced the principles of the reformed religion. It is certain, indeed, and some Roman Catholics themselves acknowledge it without hesitation, that the papal doctrines and authority would at once have fallen into ruin in all parts of the world, had not the force of the secular arm been employed to support the tottering edifice. In the Netherlands particularly, the most grievous persecutions took place, so that by the Emperor Charles V. upwards of a hundred thousand were destroyed, whilst still greater cruelties were exercised upon the people by his son Philip II. The revolt of the United Provinces, however, and motives of real policy,, at last put a stop to these furious proceedings ; and although, in many provinces of the Netherlands, the establishment: of the Catholic religion was still continued, the Protestants have been long free from the danger of persecution on account of their principles.
The Reformation made considerable progress in Spain and Italy soon after the rupture between Luther and the Roman pontiff’. In all the provinces of Italy, but more especially in the territories of Venice, Tuscany, and Naples, tbe superstition of Rome lost ground, and great numbers of people of all ranks expressed an aversion to the papal yoke. In the year 1546, this occasioned violent and dangerous commotions in the kingdom of Naples ; which, however, were at last quelled by the united forces of Charles V., and his viceroy Don Pedro di Toledo. In several places the pope put a stop to the progress of the Reformation, by letting loose the inquisitors, who spread dreadful marks of their barbarity throughout the greater part of Italy. These formidable ministers of persecution put so many to death, and perpetrated such horrid acts of cruelty and oppression, that most of the reformed consulted their safety by a voluntary exile, whilst others returned to the religion of Rome, at least in external appearance. But the inquisition, which frightened into the profession of Popery several Protestants in other parts of Italy, could never make its way into the kingdom of Naples ; nor could either the authority or the entreaties of the pope engage the Neapolitans to admit even visiting inquisitors.
In Spain, several persons embraced the Protestant religion, not only from the controversies of Luther, but even from those divines whom Charles V. had brought with him into Germany in order to refute the doctrines of the Reformer. For these doctors had imbibed the pretended heresy instead of refuting it, and propagated it more or less on their return home. But the inquisition, which could obtain no footing in Naples, reigned triumphant in Spain, and by the most dreadful methods frightened the people back into Popery, and suppressed the desire of exchanging their superstition for a more rational plan of religion. It was indeed presumed that Charles himself died a Protestant ; and it seems to be certain, that when the approach of death had dissipated those schemes of ambition and grandeur which had so long blinded him, his sentiments became much more rational and agreeable to Christianity than they had ever been before. All the ecclesiastics who had attended him, as soon as he expired, were sent to the inquisition, and committed to the fiâmes, or put to death by some other met hod equally terrible. Such was the fate of Augustin Casal, the emperor’s preacher ; of Constantius Pontius, his confessor ; of Egidius, whom he had named to the bishopric of Tortosa ;
of Bartolomeo de Caranza1 a Dominican, who had been confessor to Philip and Mary ; besides twenty others of less note.
In England, the principles of tlle Reformation began to be adopted as soon as an account of Luther’s doctrines could be conveyed thither. In that kingdom there were still remains of the sect called Lollards, whose doctrine resembled that of Luther ; and amongst whom, consequently, the sentiments of the Reformer gained great credit. Henry VIII., king of England, was at that time a violent partisan of the Church of Rome, and had a particular veneration for the writings of St Thomas Aquinas. Being informed that Luther spoke of his favourite author with contempt, he conceived a violent prejudice against the Reformer, and even wrote against him, as we have already mentioned. Luther did not hesitate about writing against his majesty, overcame him in argument, and treated him with very little ceremony. The first step towards public reformation, however, was not taken until the year 1529. Great complaints had been made in England, from a very early period, respecting the usurpations of the clergy ; and the prevalence of the Lutheran opinions rendered these complaints more loud and general than before. The House of Commons, finding the occasion favourable, passed several bills restraining the impositions of the clergy ; but what threatened the ecclesiastical order with the greatest danger, were the severe reproaches thrown out in the house, almost without opposition, against the dissolute lives, ambition, and avarice of the priests, and their continual encroachments on the privileges of the laity. The bills for regulating the clergy met with opposition in the House of Lords ; and Bishop Fisher imputed them to want of faith in the Commons, and to a formed design, proceeding from heretical and Lutheran principles, of robbing the church of her patrimony, and overturning the national religion. The Commons, however, complained to the king, by their Speaker Sir Thomas Audley, of these reflections thrown out against them ; and the bishop was obliged to retract his words.
Though Henry had not the least idea of rejecting any, even of the most absurd observances of the Catholic Church, yet as the oppressions of the clergy w ere very ill suited to the violence of his own temper, he was pleased with every opportunity of lessening their power. In the parliament of 1531, he showed his design of humbling the clergy in the most effectual manner. An obsolete statute w, as revived, from which it was pretended, that to submit to the legatine power which had been exercised by Cardinal Wolsey w, as criminal. By this stroke the whole body of clergy was at once declared guilty. They were too well acquainted with Henry’s disposition, however, to reply, that their ruin would have been the certain consequence of their not submitting to Wolsey’s commission, which had been given by royal authority. Instead of making any defence of this kind, they chose to throw themselves on the mercy of their sovereign ; which, however, it cost them L.l 18,840 to procure. A confession was likewise extorted from them, that the king was protector and supreme head of the Church of England ; though some of them had the dexterity to get a clause inserted, which invalidated the whole submission, namely, “ in as far as is permitted by the law of Christ.”
The king having thus begun to reduce the power of the clergy, kept no bounds with them afterwards. He did not indeed attempt any reformation in religious matters ; nay, he persecuted most violently such as did in the least degree attempt anything of the kind. Indeed the most essential article of his creed seems to have been his own supremacy ; for whoever denied this, whether Protestant or Papist, was sure to suffer the most severe penalties.
He died in the year 1547, and was succeeded by his only son, Edward VI. This amiable prince gave new spirit and vigour to the Protestant cause, and was its brightest ornament»
as well as its most effectual support. He encouraged learned and pious men of foreign countries Io settle in England, and addressed a particular invitation to Martin Bucer and Paul Fagius, whose moderation added a lustre to their other virtues ; in hopes that, by the ministry and labours of these eminent men, in concert with those of the friends of the Reformation in England, he might purge his dominions from the fictions of Popery, and establish in their room the pure doctrines of Christianity. For this purpose, he issued the wisest orders for the restoration of true religion ; but his reign was too short to accomplish fully such a glorious purpose. In the year 1553, he was taken from his loving and afflicted subjects, whose sorrow was great, and suited to their loss. His sister Mary, the daughter of Catharine of Aragon, from whom Henry had been divorced, blindly bigoted to the Church of Rome, and a princess whose natural character, like the spirit of her religion, was despotic and cruel, succeeded him on the throne, and imposed anew the arbitrary laws and the tyrannical yoke of Rome upon the people of England. Nor were the methods which she employed in the cause of superstition better than the cause itself, or tempered by any sentiments of equity or compassion. Barbarous tortures, and death in the most shocking forms, awaited those who opposed her will, or made the least stand against the restoration of Popery. And amongst many other victims, tlle learned and pious Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, who had been one of the most efficient instruments of the Reformation in England, fell a sacrifice to her fury. But this odious scene of persecution was happily concluded in the year 1558, by the death of the queen, who left no issue ; and, as soon as her successor Elizabeth ascended the throne, all things assumed a new aspect. The glorious period of this reign was alike eminent for religious knowledge and for daring genius, for civil prosperity and for martial glory. Elizabeth, whose sentiments, and councils, and projects, breathed a spirit superior to the natural softness and delicacy of her sex, exerted this vigorous and masculine spirit in the defence of oppressed conscience and expiring liberty ; broke anew the despotic yoke of papal authority and superstition ; and, delivering her people from the bondage of Rome, established that form of religious doctrine and ecclesiastical government which still subsists in. England. This religious establishment differed in some respects from the plan which had been formed by those whom Edward VI. had employed for promoting the cause of the Reformation, and approached nearer to the rites and discipline of former times; though it is.widely different, and, in the most important points, entirely opposite to the principles of the Roman Catholic hierarchy.
The cause of the Reformation underwent in Ireland the same vicissitudes and revolutions which had attended it in England. When Henry VIII. after the abolition of the papal authority, was declared supreme head of the Church of England upon earth, George Brown, a native of England, and a monk of the Augustinian order, whom that monarch had created, in the year 1535, Archbishop of Dublin, began to act with the utmost vigour in consequence of this change in the hierarchy. He purged the churches within his diocese from superstition in all its various forms ; pulled dow n images ; destroyed relics ; abolished absurd and idolatrous rites ; and, by the influence as well as authority he had obtained in Ireland, caused the king’s supremacy to be acknowledged in that nation. Henry soon afterwards showed that this supremacy was by no means a vain title ; for he banished the monks out of that kingdom, confiscated their revenues, and destroyed their convents. In the reign of Edward VI. Still further progress was made in the removal of popish superstitions, by the zealous labours of Bishop Brown, and the auspicious encouragement he granted to all who exerted themselves in the cause of the Reformation. The death 
of
this young prince, however, and the accession of Queen
Mary, had nearly changed the face of affairs in Ireland as much as in England ; but her designs were disappointed by a very curious adventure, of which the following account has been copied from the papers of Richard earl of Cork.
“ Queen Mary having dealt severely with the Protestants in England, about the latter end of her reign signed a commission for to take the same course with them in Ireland ; and to execute the same with greater force, she nominates Dr Cole one of the commissioners. The doctor coming, with the commission, to Chester on his journey, the mayor of that city, hearing that her majesty was sending a messenger into Ireland, and he being a churchman, waited on the doctor, who in discourse with the mayor taketh out of a cloke-bag a leather box, saying unto him, Here is a commission that shall lash the heretics of Ireland, calling the Protestants by that title. The good woman of the house being well affected to the Protestant religion, and also having a brother named John Edmonds of the same persuasion, then a citizen in Dublin, was much troubled at the doctor’s words; but watching her convenient time, while the mayor took his leave, and the doctor complimented him down the stairs, she opens the box, takes the commission out, and places in lieu thereof a sheet of paper with a pack of cards wrapt up therein, the knave of clubs being faced uppermost. The doctor coming up to his chamber, suspecting nothing of what had been done, put up the box as formerly. The next day going to the water-side, wind and weather serving him, he sails towards Ireland, and landed on the 7th of October 1558 at Dublin. Then coming to the castle, the Lord Fitzwalters being lord-deputy, sent for him to come before him and the privy-council ; who, coming in, after he had made a speech relating upon what account he came over, he presents the box unto the lord-deputy ; who causing it to be opened, that the secretary might read the commission, there was nothing save a pack of cards with the knave
of
clubs uppermost ; which not only startled the lord-deputy and council, but the doctor, who assured them he had a commission, but knew not how it was gone. Then the lord-deputy made answer : Let us have another commission, and we will shuffle the cards in the meanwhile. The doctor being troubled in his mind, went away, and returned into England, and coming to the court obtained another commission : but staying for a wind on the waterside, new, s came to him that the queen was dead ; and thus God preserved the Protestants of Ireland.” Queen Elizabeth was so delighted with this story, which was related to her by Lord Fitzwalter on his return to England, that she sent for Elizabeth Edmonds, whose husband’s name was Mattershad, and gave her a pension
of
forty pounds a year during her life.
In Scotland, the seeds of the Reformation were very early ] sown, by several noblemen who had resided in Germany! during the religious disputes there. But for many years it!  was suppressed by the power of the pope, seconded by severe law's and not a few executions. The most eminent opponent of the papal jurisdiction was John Knox, a disciple of Calvin, and a man of great zeal and invincible fortitude. On all occasions he raised the drooping spirits of the reformers, and encouraged them to go on with their work, notwithstanding the opposition and treachery of the queen-regent; until at last, in 1561, by the assistance of an English army sent by Elizabeth, Popery was in a manner totally extirpated from every part of the kingdom. From this period the form of doctrine, worship, and discipline established by Calvin at Geneva, has had the ascendency in Scotland.
For further information on the subject of the Reformation in general, we refer our readers to the works of Burnet and Brandt ; to Beausobre’s
Histoire de la Reformation dans FEmpire, et les Etats de la Confession d’Augsbourg, depuis 
1517-1530, Berlin, 1785, in four vols. 8vo ; and Mosheim’s Ecclesiastical History. See also Sleidan
De Statu Religi-
Onis et Reipublica, Carolo
V.
Cœsare, Commentarii;
Father Paul’s History of the Council of Trent ; and D’Aubigné’s History of the Reformation. The Life of Luther by D1 Aubigne may likewise be perused with advantage.
REFRACTION, in general, is the deviation of a moving body from its direct course, occasioned by the different density of the media in which it moves ; or it is a change of direction occasioned by a body’s falling obliquely out of one medium into another. The word is chiefly made use of with regard to the rays of light. See Optics.
REFRACTION of Altitude,
the arc or portion of a vertical circle, by which the altitude of a star is increased by the refraction of light.
Refraction of Ascension and Descension,
an arc of the equator, by which the ascension and descension of a star, whether right or oblique, is increased or diminished by the refraction.
Refraction of Declination
is an arc of a circle of declination, by which the declination of a star is increased or diminished by refraction.
REFRACTION of Latitude,
an arc of a circle of latitude, by which the latitude of a star is increased or diminished by the refraction.
Refraction of Longitude,
an arc of the ecliptic, by which the longitude of a star is increased or diminished by means of the refraction.
Refraction, Terrestrial,
is that which makes terrestrial objects appear to be raised higher than they are in reality, in observing their altitudes.
REFRANGIBILITY of Light, the disposition of rays to be refracted. The term is chiefly applied to the disposition of rays to produce different colours, according to their different degrees of refrangibility. See Optics.
REFRIGERATIVE, in
Medicine,
a remedy which refreshes the inward parts by cooling them ; as clysters, ptisans, and the like.
REFRIGERATORY, in
Chemistry,
a vessel filled with cold water, through which the worm or spiral tube passes in distillations ; the use of which is to condense the vapours as they pass through the worm or pipe.
REFUGEES, a term at first applied to the French Protestants, who, by the revocation of the edict of Nantes, were constrained to fly from persecution, and take refuge in foreign countries. Since that time, however, it has been extended to all such as leave their country in time of distress.
REGALBUTO, a town of the island of Sicily, in the intendency of Messina, and district of Demone. It stands on a hill near the river of the same name, in a salubrious situation, 100 miles from Palermo, and contains 6800 inhabitants.
REGALIA, in
Law,
the rights and prerogatives of a king. Regalia is also used for the apparatus of a coronation.
REGALMUTO, a city of the intendency of Girgente, and district of Mazzara, in the island of Sicily. It stands upon a level plain, in a healthy and fertile situation, sixty-eight miles from Palermo, and contains 7200 industrious inhabitants, who obtain from a mountain near them salt, quicksilver, saltpetre, sulphur, gypsum, and some excellent stone for building.
REGAN, a neat little town of Persia, in the province of Kerman, situated in the district of Nurmansheer, on the eastern frontier. The town is surrounded by a mud-wall ; the fort is quadrangular, and the walls are high and in good ι epair, being flanked with bastions. The cattle of the inhabitants are driven every night within the walls for protection. A guard is constantly kept at the only gate which the town has, to prevent the entrance of strangers, and also the predatory incursions of the surrounding tribes. It is eighty-nine miles east from Bumm.
REGARDANT, in
Heraldry,
signifies looking behind ; and it is used for a lion or other beast, with his face turned towards hie tail.
REGARDER, an ancient officer of the king’s forest, who was sworn to make the regard of the forest every year ; that is, to take a view of its limits, to inquire into all offences and defaults committed by the foresters within the forest, and to observe whether all the officers executed their respective duties.
REGATTA, a species of amusement peculiar to the republic of Venice. This spectacle had the power of exciting admiration, enthusiasm, and a sense of glory. The grand regatta was only exhibited on particular occasions, as the visits of foreign princes and kings at Venice.
REGEL, or Rigel, a fixed star of the first magnitude, in Orion’s left foot.
REGEN, one of the circles into which the kingdom of Bavaria is divided, and deriving its name from the chief river which flows through it. On the north it is bounded by the circle of the Upper Maine, on the north-east by Bohemia, on the south-east by the Lower Danube, on the south by the Issar, and on the south-west by the Lower Danube. It extends over 4282 square miles, and comprehends fifty-six cities and market-towns, and 3160 villages and hamlets. The population amounts to 364,470 persons. In the part which borders on Bohemia the country is mountainous, but to the south of the Danube it is generally either level or undulating. Some of the rivers run to the Maine, but the greater part of the streams find their way to the sea through the Danube. The soil to the north of the Danube is poor, but to the south of that stream is moderately productive of the common kinds of grain, and somewhat more of flax and hemp. The circle is divided into nineteen bailiwicks, several of which are under the authority of mediatized princes.
REGENERATION, in
Theology,
the act of being born again by a spiritual birth, or the change of heart and life experienced by a person who forsakes a course of vice, and sincerely embraces a life of virtue and piety.
REGENT, one who governs a kingdom during the minority or absence of the king.
Regent also signifies a professor of arts and sciences in a college, having pupils under his care ; but it is generally restricted to the lower classes, as to rhetoric, logic, &c. those of philosophy being called
professors.
In the English universities it is applied to masters of arts under five years standing, and to doctors under two, as non-regent is to those above that standing.
REGGIO, a province of the duchy of Modena, in Italy, 710 square miles in extent, and containing 161,600 inhabitants. The chief place is the city of the same name, on the navigable canal Tassoni, by which it is connected with the Po. It is surrounded with indefensible walls, and has a citadel not tenable against attacks. It is the scat of a bishop, and has a magnificent cathedral, twenty-two parish and twenty-six monastic churches, a Jesuits’ college and episcopal seminary, and a fine theatre. It contains 1500 houses, and 18,600 inhabitants, who make many kinds of silk goods and some linens, and have an extensive trade in the raw produce of the district.
REGICIDE, King-killer, a word chiefly used with us in speaking of the persons concerned in the trial, condemnation, and execution of Charles I.
REGIFUGIUM was a feast celebrated at Rome on
tlle
24th of February, in commemoration of the expulsion of Tarquin the Proud, and the abolition of the regal power. It wasalso performed on the 26th of May, when the king of the sacrifices, or
Rex Sacrorum,
offered bean-flour and bacon in the place where the assemblies were held. The sacrifice being ended, the people hastened away with all speed, to denote the precipitate flight of Tarquin,
REGIMEN, the regulation of diet with a view to preserve or restore health. See Dietetics.
, Regimen, in
Grammar,
that part of syntax, or construction, which regulates the dependency of words, and the alteration which one occasions in another.
REGIMENT is a body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, a lieutenant-colonel, and a major. Each regiment of foot is divided into companies, but the number of companies differs. In Britain our regiments have generally ten companies, one of which always consists of grenadiers. Regiments of horse commonly consist of six troops, but there are some which contain nine. Dragoon regiments have generally in time of war eight troops, but in time of peace six only. Each regiment has a chaplain, quarter-master, adjutant, and surgeon. (See tlle article Army.)
REGION, in
Geography,
a large extent of land, inhabited by many people of the same nation, and inclosed within certain limits or bounds.
Region, in
Physiology,
is taken for a division of our atmosphere, which is divided into the upper, middle, and lower regions.
The upper region commences from the tops of the mountains, and reaches to the utmost limits of the atmosphere. In this region reign perpetual and equable calmness, clearness, and serenity. The middle region is that in which the clouds reside, and where meteors are formed, extending from the extremity of the lowest to the tops of the highest mountains. The lowest region is that in which we breathe, which is bounded by the reflection of the sun’s rays, or by the height to which they rebound from the earth. See Atmosphere.
Ethereal Region,
in
Cosmography,
is the whole extent of the universe, in which is included all the heavenly bodies, and even the orb of the fixed stars.
Elementary REGION,
according to the Aristotelians, is a sphere terminated by the concavity of the moon’s orb, comprehending the atmosphere of the earth.
Region, in
Anatomy,
a division of the human body, otherwise called
cavity,
of which anatomists reckon three, viz. the upper region, or that of the head ; the middle region, or that of the thorax or breast ; and the lower, being that of the abdomen or belly.
REGIS, Peter Sylvain, a French philosopher, and a great propagator of the doctrines of Descartes, was born in Agenois in the year 1632. Hestudied languages and philosophy under the Jesuits at Cahors ; and as his views were then directed to the church, he was afterwards occupied in the study of divinity at the university of that town. His progress in learning was so uncommon, that at the end of four years he was offered a doctor’s degree without the usual charges; but he did not think it became him to accept of it till he had also studied in the Sorbonne at Paris. He went thither, but was soon disgusted with theology ; and as the philosophy of Descartes began at that time to make a noise, in consequence of the lectures of Rohault, he conceived a taste for, and gave himself up entirely to, the study of it. He frequented these lectures ; and becoming an adept, went to Toulouse in 1665, and read lectures himself. Having fine parts, a clear and fluent manner, and a happy way of making himself understood, he attracted all sorts of people ; the magistrates, the learned, the ecclesiastics, and the very women, who now all affected to abjure the ancient philosophy. In 1680 he returned to Paris, where the concourse which flocked to him was such that the sticklers for the peripatetic philosophy began to be alarmed. They applied to the Archbishop of Paris, who thought it expedient, in the name of the king, to put a stop to the lectures, which accordingly were discontinued for several months. The whole life of Regis was spent in propagating the new philosophy. In 1690 he published a formal system thereof, containing logic, metaphysics, physics, and morals, in three volumes 4∙to, written in French. It wr as reprinted the year after, at Amsterdam, w'ith the addition of a discourse upon ancient and modern philosophy. He wrote afterwards several pieces in defence of his system, in which he had disputes with M. Huet, Duhamel, Malebranche, and others. His works, though abounding with ingenuity and learning, have been disregarded, in consequence of the great discoveries and advancement in philosophical knowledge which have since been made. He had been chosen member of the Academy of Sciences in 1699, and he died in 1707.
Besides his System of Philosophy, he wrote the following works: The Use of Reason and of Faith ; an Answer to Huet’s Censures of the Cartesian Philosophy ; an Answer to DuhameVs Critical Reflections; some pieces against Malebranche, to show that the apparent magnitude of an object depends solely on the magnitude of its image traced upon the retina ; and a small piece upon the question, Whether Pleasure constitutes our present Happiness ?
REGISTER, a public book, in which are entered and recorded memoirs, acts, and minutes, to be had recourse to occasionally for knowing and proving matters of fact.
REGISTRAR, an officer in the English universities, who has the keeping of all the public records.
REGISTRATION, General, ofBirths, Baptisms, Marriages, Deaths, and Burials, in England and Wales. The first known public authority under which registers recording births or baptisms, marriages, deaths or burials, were systematically kept in England, was an injunction issued in September 1538 (30 Hen. VIII.), by Thomas Lord Cromwell, lord privy seal and vicegerent to tlle king, which enjoined, that in every parish a register-book should be kept in a coffer with two locks, by the parson, vicar, or curate, and churchwardens ; and that every Sunday, in the presence of one of the churchwardens, the parson, &c. should enter in a register-book a written record of the dates and names of the weddings, christenings, and burials, of the preceding week ; by neglect of which duty he incurred a fine of three shillings and fourpence, to be employed in the repair of the church.
In 1547, an injunction was issued by Edward VI. similar to that of 1538, excepting only that the penalty was directed “ to be employed to the poore-box” of the parish.
Inquiry was directed, at the instance of Cardinal Pole, under Philipand Mary, in the years 1555 and 1557, whether tlle clergy had complied w’ith these directions ; and in the first year of Queen Elizabeth, 1559, a further injunction was issued, which differed from that of Edward VI. in 1547 only in directing that the penalty should be divided between the poor-box and the repair of the church. These injunctions were not very strictly observed, as appears by the preamble of a bill to “ authorize every archbishop and bishop to erect one office of registership of all the church-books, to be kept in every diocese,” which, in March 1563, was read a first time in the House of Commons, but did not pass.
The great importance of registration was in 1590 represented to the Lord-treasurer Burghley, who, impressed with the force of the representation, communicated a plan to the Archbishop of Canterbury. Nothing, however, appears to have been done in consequence until October 1597, when a constitution was made by the archbishop, bishops, and clergy of the province of Canterbury, and approved by the queen ; which notices the very great utility of parish-registers, and gives minute directions for keeping them, and for the transmission of a transcript yearly to the diocesan registrar. It appears, too, that persons were appointed for the purpose of ascertaining if the several orders had been complied with ; and that every minister, at institution, was required to declare that he would “ keep the register-book according to the queen’s majesty’s injunctions.”
In 1603, the first year of tlle reign of James I. another
injunction was issued similar to that of 1597, with the important addition of a clause, appointing that the ancient registers, so far as they could be procured, but especially since the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth, should be copied into a parchment-book, to be provided by every parish ; after which, nothing more appears to have emanated, either from the ecclesiastical or civil authorities, on this subject, till the time of the Long Parliament, when the following entry in the Journal of the House of Commons gives evidence of attention to the importance of registration.
“ Anno 1644, Dec. 6. Ordered, that it be referred to tbe committee for bringing in the ordinance for the establishing the directory, to bring in a clause in that ordinance, for registering the time of baptizing of children, and their parents’ names, and for registering of burials.” In the same year an ordinance was made, directing, that in every parish or chapelry in England and Wales, the minister and other church-officers should keep a register of birth and baptism, of marriage, and of burial ; and that all persons reasonably desiring it might search therein and obtain copies.
In August 1653, in pursuance of the recommendations of a law-reform committee appointed in the preceding year, and including many eminent persons, an act was passed, which directed that in every parish a register-book shall be provided for registering all marriages, births, and burials in the parish ; and that the custody of such book, and the duty of registration, shall be given to a person, to be called the parish registrar, appointed by the parishioners chargeable to the poor, and approved by a justice of the peace. It was also enacted, that extra-parochial places, or small parishes, might be united, for the purposes of registration, to other parishes, by the justices at their sessions ; and that all existing register-books should be kept by the registering officers appointed under that act.
This act was not confirmed at the Restoration, and the business of registration reverted to the clergy of the established church. During the reigns of Charles II. and James II. nothing was done with respect to registers, except that, by a clause in the act of 30 Car. II. c. 3, entitled “ an act for burying in woollen,” it was enacted that all clergymen “ do, within their respective parishes, precincts, and places, take an exact account, and keep a register, of all and every person or persons buried in his or their respective parishes or precincts, or in such common burial-places as their respective parishioners are usually buried.”
In the reign of William III. registration was rendered a source of revenue. The act of 6 and 7 William III. c. 6, granted duties on births, marriages, and burials, and compelled the clergy, under a penalty of L.100, to keep an exact register of all persons born, christened, married, or buried in their respective parishes, to which register the collector of the tax, and all persons concerned, might have free access without fee. It thus imposed on the clergyman the onerous duty of acting gratuitously as a civil functionary, and collecting information of all births within his parish, without distinction of sect, and irrespective of baptism, a duty the difficulty of which was rendered greater by the attempts of the parents to conceal the birth, in order to elude the payment of the tax. With a view to obviate this objection, an act was passed in the following year (7 and 8 William III. c. 35), which provided that parents should, within five days after birth, give notice of the day of the birth to the clergyman, under a penalty of forty shillings, and that the clergyman should, under a like penalty, register such birth, for which the parents were to pay sixpence ; and by the 4th of Anne, c. 12, the clergy were relieved from the ruinous penalties incurred under the act of 6 and 7 William III. c. 6, in all cases where the duties ha<¼ been really paid.
The 26th Geo. II. c. 33, an act “ to prevent clandestine
marriages,” directed the church-wardens of every parish to provide books of vellum, or good and durable paper, for the registration of marriages. By the 23d of Geo. III. c. 67, a' stamp-duty of threepence was imposed upon every registered entry of burial, marriage, birth, or christening, to be demanded by the clergyman from the undertaker, or from the parties married, or from the parents of the child whose birth or christening had been registered. By 25 Geo. III. c. 75, the provisions of that act were extended to dissenting ministers. These measures excited much objection, and were repealed in 1794.
The next legislative measure affecting registers was the 52d Geo. III. c. 146, entitled “ an act for the better regulating and preserving parish and other registers of births, baptisms, marriages, and burials, in England.” After reciting that “ the amending the manner and form of keeping and of preserving registers of baptisms, marriages, and burials of his majesty’s subjects in the several parishes and places in England, will greatly facilitate the proof of pedigrees of persons claiming to be entitled to real or personal estates, and be otherwise of great public benefit and advantage,” it enacts, that, after the 31st of December 1812, registers of baptisms, marriages, and burials, according to the rites of the established church, shall be made and kept by the officiating minister of every parish and chapelry, in books to be provided by the king’s printer, at the expense of the respective parishes, according to the forms contained in schedules annexed to that act. These schedules contain the following particulars : In case of
baptism,—
when baptized ; child’s Christian name ; parents’ Christian names and surnames ; abode ; quality, trade, or profession ; by whom the ceremony was performed. In case of
marriage,—
the name and parish of the man ; the same of the woman ; when married ; whether by banns or license ; whether by consent of parents or guardians ; when ; by whom ; signature of officiating minister of the parties married, and of two witnesses. In case of
burial,—
the name ; abode; when buried; age ; by whom the ceremony was performed.
The registers of baptism, marriage, and burial were to be kept in separate books, and signed within seven days after each ceremony had been performed. Annual copies were to be made, verified, and signed by the officiating minister, and attested by the church-wardens, and transmitted by them yearly to the registrar of the diocese ; which registrar must report thereon to his bishop ; must deposit such copies in a safe receptacle, arranged for reference; and cause alphabetical lists of persons and places to be made, kept, and opened for search.
It is to be observed that this act, which referred in its title to registers of births, made no provision for recording the date of birth. Neither did it provide a record of the date of death. It only provided records of the performance of the religious ceremonies of baptism, marriage, and burial, according to the rites of the Established Church. It therefore afforded an insufficient register, even for members of the Established Church, whilst for those who dissented from the Established Church, and therefore did not avail themselves of its ordinances for baptism or burial, it provided no register at all.
The inadequacy of this system, even if fully carried into effect, and the insufficient manner in which it was complied with, called loudly for investigation and remedy, and became the subject of inquiry before a select committee of the House of Commons, appointed in March 1833, who, having, as they state, received evidence on registration “ from clergymen of the established church, and from parish-clerks; from gentlemen of the legal profession ; from authors devoted to antiquarian research ; from persons of different religious denominations, including Catholics, Dissenters, Jews, and Quakers ; from gentlemen eminently scientific, and attached to statistical inquiries ; from medical audio-
rities, who have long desired ampler and more accurate information on the extent and causes of mortality ; from an eminent foreigner, distinguished for extensive and accurate statistical intelligence ; and others, whose wide-spread inquiries in foreign countries, and peculiar facilities of information, entitled them to respect ;” unanimously agreed to a report, which expressed the following opinions as the conclusions at which they had arrived.
“ 1.
That the subject is urgently important.
“ 2. That it involves matters of great public and national interest, as well as individual satisfaction, and rights and claims to property ; and deserves the attention of the humblest artisan as well as of the most philosophical and states-man-like inquirer.
“ 3. That the existing law is imperfect and unjust, and requires not merely partial amendment, but real fundamental reform.
“ 4. That the present plan, even if improved and perfected, as applicable to the members of the established church, being founded on religious rights, is exclusive and intolerant, as it would not include a very considerable portion of the reflecting, intelligent, and influential population of the country, who are Protestant and Catholic dissenters from that church, and 1100 congregations who disapprove infant baptism, and must practically punish them (including, too, the community who may purchase or derive property from them) for claiming the rights of conscience, and believing what their judgments direct.
“ 5. That even to many pious and worthy clergymen of the established church the system is productive of pain and regret, as it often induces a compliance, from mere secular motives, with sacraments which they highly estimate and devoutly revere. But,
“ 6. That even as to the members of the church it is detrimental and absurd, since the registers are mere registers of baptisms and not of births, of burials and not of deaths ; since they supply no adequate proof of pedigrees, or means of proving or tracing ancestral descent ; since they are often falsified, stolen, burnt, inaccurately inscribed, and carelessly preserved ; since the securities intended to be given by the last general register act (52 Geo. III.), by directing the yearly and universal transcription of the registers, their deposit with the diocesan records, and the preparation of indexes to facilitate searches, have all experienced only the most limited fulfilment, as, while one fourth of the parishes make no returns, the returns that have been sent are never indorsed, and are subject to fire and decay, and the directions of the act have not and cannot be enforced ; and since the value of property is diminished by the difficulties incident to its transfer, and the insecurity by which it is so often held and acquired. And,
“ 7. That great trouble, vast expense, utter uncertainty, capricious charges, and local and general evils exist, while no means are supplied to obtain tbe information other countries possess, and justly value, as to the state of disease, the operation of moral and physical causes on the health of the people, the progress of population, and other matters on which accurate Knowledge can scarcely be too highly appreciated or too intensely pursued.”
The committee further recommended, that, as a remedy for tlle defects before mentioned, “ a national civil registration of births, marriages, and deaths, should be established,” including “all ranks of society, and religionists of every class.”
In pursuance of these recommendations, measures for effecting a better registration were laid before parliament ; and in August 1836 the act for registering births, deaths, and marriages in England, and the act for marriages in England, became law. Their operation was suspended for a limited time by the act of 7 Will. I V- chap. 1, and they were amend
ed by the act of 1 Vict. chap. 22, and thus amended they came into operation on the 1st of July 1837.
These acts leave untouched the act of
1812
so far as it relates to the registration of baptisms and burials, but repeal what relates to the registration of marriages, and provide a new registration of marriages, of
births,
and of 
deaths.
The circumstances recorded in the register-book under the new law are, in case of
birth,
the time and place ;
the 
name, if any ; sex ; name and surname of father ; name and maiden surname of mother ; rank or profession of father ; signature, description, and residence of the informant ; and the baptismal name, if added after registration of birth. In case of
death,
the time and place ; name and surname ; sex ; age ; rank or profession ;
cause tf death ; 
signature, description, and residence of the informant. Every entry must be signed by the informant and by the registrar, who discharges this duty without any immediate expense to the parties requiring registration, but is remunerated by a moderate fee on each entry paid quarterly out of the poor’s rates. The
informant,
in a case of
birth, 
must be one of the parents, or the occupier of the house or tenement in whlch the child was bom ; or, if it be a foundling, the overseer of the poor. In a case of
death,
it must be some person present at the death, or in attendance during the last illness ; or, in default of such person, the occupier ; or, in default of the occupier, an inmate of the house in which the death occurred ; or, if there be an inquest, the coroner. Persons so qualified
must
inform under pain of indictment, and sign the register on being requested so to do ; and without such signature no birth or death can be duly registered, and the entry cannot be given in evidence.
The new form for registration of marriages, applicable alike to all religious denominations, records the place and time of marriage ; names and surnames of the parties ; whether they are of full age or minors ; their condition (that is, whether bachelor or spinster, widowτ er or widow) ; their rank or profession ; residence at the time of marriage ; father’s name and surname ; rank or profession of father ; by what rites and ceremonies, after what preliminary forms (that is, whether license, banns, or certificate), and by whom solemnized ; and must also contain the signatures of the parties and of two witnesses.
One of the most important circumstances not previously recorded, for which provision is made in the new register, is the “ cause of death,” to w, hich a column is assigned in the registers of death, and where it is exhibited in juxtaposition with the period, locality, sex, age. and occupation, thus affording valuable data of the highest importance to medical science. In order to attain the utmost accuracy in the returns of the causes of death, a printed circular has been sent by the registrar-general to all medical practitioners in England and Wales, wherein it is recommended, under the hand of the President of tile Royal College of Physicians, the President of the Royal College of Surgeons, and the Master of the Society of Apothecaries, “ that every practising member of any branch of the medical profession who may have been present at the death, or in attendance during the last illness, of any person, shall, immediately after such death, place in the hands of such other persons as were in attendance, of the occupier of the house in which the death occurred, and of some inmate who may probably be required to give information,
written statements of the cause of death,
which such persons may show’ to the registrar, and give as their information on that subject.”
The recent registration act is peculiarly distinguished from other previous measures on that subject, by the provision of a central office in London, called the General Register Office, for the deposit of certified copies of all registers, and eeneral superintendence over everythi∏R relat
ing to registration. It is presided over by an officer named the Registrar-General, appointed under the great seal, under whom in the office is an assistant registrar, a chief clerk, three first clerks, and forty-three others, who are appointed by the Lords of the Treasury, or by the Registrar-General with their approval. Instructions emanate from this office to all the local officers charged with the various duties of registration under this act, namely, superintendent registrars, with their deputies ; registrars of births and deaths, with their deputies; and registrars of marriages ; all of whom act within their respective districts under the directions of the Registrar-General, in whom is vested the power of dismissal.
The duties of the Registrar-General are to make regulations, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State, for the management of the General Register Office, and for the duties of all registrars and superintendent registrars ; to appoint superintendent registrars for temporary districts ; to examine and sanction the formation of registrars’ districts, submitted by the various boards of poor-law guardians for his approval; to examine and sanction, if approved, the plans for local register offices, to be provided by the poor-law guardians, and submitted by them for his approval ; to furnish the various books, forms, &c. requisite for registration, to the various parties requiring them ; to register certified places of worship for solemnization of marriage; to decide, in cases of doubt, upon all caveats referred to him by the superintendent registrars, and to adjudicate on an appeal from the superintendent registrar’s decision on a caveat ; to hear and settle all matters of doubt, dispute, and complaint, respecting the business of registration, and the duties and conduct of the various officers employed therein ; to annex extraparochial places to registrars’ districts ; to unite two or more superintendent registrars’ districts, or to divide one superintendent registrar’s district into two, with the approval of the Secretary of State ; to appoint registrars or superintendent registrars if the guardians neglect to do so ; and to send once in every year a report and abstract of all registered births, deaths, and marriages, for the preceding year, to the Secretary of State, to be laid before parliament.
The superintendent registrar is a local officer created by the registration and marriage acts, acting solely within his “ district, which is either identical with a poor-law union, or consists, as in a few instances, of two or more unions formed into one district by the authority of the Registrar-General, or is a temporary district consisting of several temporary registrars’ districts united by the Registrar-General where there is no poor-law board of guardians. In the latter case, the superintendent registrar is appointed by the Registrar-General. Inthe former, he is either the clerk of the guardians, who, as such, is entitled
ex officio
to take the office, or he is some person whom, the clerk not accepting, the guardians may have appointed, subject in either case to such qualifications as the Registrar-General may by any general rule require.
The principal duty of the superintendent registrar is to receive quarterly, from the registrars of births and deaths, and registrars of marriages, within his district, the certified copies of births, deaths, and marriages registered by them for the preceding quarter, and, having verified them by comparison with the original entries in the register-books, to certify their correctness, and transmit them to the Registrar-General ; to receive also and transmit, but not also to verify, certified copies of marriages registered by all clergymen of the Established Church within his district, or by any registering officer of the Quakers, or secretary of a Jewish synagogue, if there be any within or assigned to his district. He has also the care of the register office of his district, where are deposited all register-books within the district when filled ; and he is to make indexes of these, and permit searches, and give copies of entries in the register-books on payment of certain fixed fees. He may appoint registrars of marriage within his district ; and, previous notice having been already given, he may grant certificates for marriage, and, within his district, licenses for marriage, provided such license be not for marriage to be solemnized according to the forms of the Established Church.
The registrar of births and deaths is a local officer acting within his district, which has either been formed, with the
∣
 approval of the Registrar-General, by a board of guardians' established under the poor-law amendment act, or is a temporary district formed by the Poor-law Commissioners where there is no such board established. In the former case, the registrar is appointed by the board of guardians, in the latter by the Poor-law Commissioners, subject, in both cases, to such qualifications as the Registrar-General may by any general rule declare to be necessary.
His duties, which are the same in both cases, are to register, in the books provided for that purpose, every birth and death occurring within his district ; and four times in every year to make, on forms furnished for that purpose, copies of all such entries of births and of deaths for the quarter immediately preceding ; to certify that such copies are correct, and to deliver them to the superintendent registrar of his district, who, on comparing them with the register-book, which tlle registrar must also produce, will certify their correctness, and transmit them to the Registrar-General. He also delivers an account of tlle number of entries so copied, which the superintendent registrar verifies, and sanctions if correct, and which the registrar then presents, and obtains payment of the fees due thereupon from the guardians or overseers of the poor.
The registrar of marriages is a local officer appointed by the superintendent registrar, with the approval of the guardians, or, if there be no board of guardians, of the Poor-law’ Commissioners, and acts solely within his district, which is the same as that of the superintendent registrar by whom he was appointed.
His duty is to be present at marriages not according to the forms of the Church of England, solemnized either in registered places of worship within his district, or in the superintendent registrar’s office ; to register the same in a book provided for that purpose ; and to deliver quarterly to the superintendent registrar certified copies of such registered entries, in like manner as is done by the registrar of births and deaths.
Marriages according to the forms of the Established Church are registered, as before, by the officiating clergyman, who delivers certified copies quarterly to the superintendent registrar of his district, to be transmitted to the Registrar-General. The marriages are also registered at the time
in duplicate ;
and one of the books, when filled, is to be deposited immediately in the superintendent registrar’s office.
Marriages according to the ceremonies of the Quakers and of the Jews are registered respectively in duplicate by the registering officer of the Quakers and the secretary of the synagogue, and certified copies are given quarterly to the superintendent registrar for transmission.
The number of persons by whom the registration of births, deaths, and marriages under the existing law is conducted (exclusive of the central establishment of the General Register Office) is as follows :—
There are 618 superintendent registrars, each of whom may appoint a deputy, with the approval of the Registrar-General, to act for him in case of his illness or absence. Of these, 562 have accepted the office as clerks of boards of guardians, or have been appointed by the guardians ; and fifty-six are temporary, and have been appointed by the Registrar-General.
There are 2193 registrars of births and deaths, each of whom may appoint a deputy, with
tlle
approval of the guardians or of the Poor-law Commissioners. Of these, 1926
are appointed by the guardians established under the poor-law amendment act, and 267 are registrars of temporary districts, appointed by the Poor-law Commissioners.
The number of registrars of marriages who had been appointed and held such office on the 3lst of December 1838 was 817, of whom 419 are also registrars of births and deaths. The foregoing, being in number 3209, act under the directions of the Registrar-General, and are removeable by him.
The number of other persons by whom registration of marriage is effected is as follows:—lsi, 11,694 officiating ministers of the Established Church, to whom register-books have been furnished ;
2d,
ninety registering officers of Quakers ; 3d, thirty-six secretaries of synagogues. All these are in communication with the Registrar-General with respect to the duties of registration.
One of the most important features of the new measures is the provision that certified copies shall be deposited quarterly in the General Register Office in London, there to be arranged and indexed for facility of reference ; a provision by means of which henceforth a copy of an entry of any registered birth, death, or marriage, in any part of England or Wales, may be obtained by application at a single office, at the trifling cost of 3s. 6d., which includes the fee for search.
The certified copies thus transmitted from the clergy, registrars, registering officers, and secretaries (amounting together to more than 15,000 persons), are all made on separate leaves of durable paper, of an uniform size and peculiar texture, having a distinguishing water-mark for the prevention of forgery, and furnished by the Registrar-General to every one of the foregoing persons, on whom the duty of registration devolves. They are sent by the superintendent registrars by the general post, each class of return (i.
e. 
birth, death, and marriage) being sent separate, and in a cover denoting by a mark the nature of the contents, and bearing the name of the district to which it belongs. Thus, on their reception at the General Register Office, the confusion which would Otherwuse ensue is avoided, by its being rendered possible to classify the certified copies to a considerable extent even before they are taken out of their covers.
They are then arranged and examined
seriatim,
and all defects are noted ; and letters on the subject of such defects as are of any importance are addressed to the persons from whom the defective copies come, and who arc required to furnish either other copies, or such explanations as may remove doubt. The copies are then paged, and inserted in books for reference.
Means of immediate reference to any one of the entries of births, deaths, and marriages deposited in the General Register Office, which will amount yearly to almost 1,000,000, are provided in the alphabetical indexes which are made there. This vast work, far exceeding in magnitude anything of a similar kind ever before attempted in this country, is performed in the following manner. The few particulars requisite for the index are copied from each entry
seriatim,
on forms prepared for that purpose, containing space for as many entries as there are in one page of a certified copy. These, after having been checked, are cut into separate slips, each containing the reference to one entry ; and the slips are then sorted and arranged alphabetically on files, from w’hence they are then taken off one by one by the indexing clerks, and the contents of each copied into the index. In this manner nearly a million of names will be indexed alphabetically in tlle course of each year, the processes of transcribing, sorting, and indexing being performed by between thirty and forty persons. There is a separate index for each class of entries (births, deaths, and marriages), and for each quarter, or twelve separate indexes for the year. Any person, on payment of one shilling, may search these indexes, and, on finding the name sought, may obtain, for two shillings and sixpence, a copy of the entry of birth, death, or marriage referred to ; which copy, being stamped with the official seal, will be “ received as evidence of the birth, death, or marriage to which the same relates, without any further or other proof of such entry.” Thus not only are means afforded of obtaining for legal purposes, by application at one central office, certified copies of registers from every part of England and Wτ ales, but the copies so obtained have the additional advantage of being sufficient evidence, without an affidavit, of their being correct, which is often required for the confirmation of extracts given from church registers.
It is stated in the preface to the Population Abstract for 1831, as tile result of an inquiry respecting parochial registers in England, “ that eight hundred and twelve English parish registers commence in the year 1538, about forty of which contain entries (copied probably from family bibles and tomb-stones), anterior to the date of Cromwell’s injunction ; 1822 parish registers commence from a. d. 1538 to 1558, when Queen Elizabeth required a protestation from the clergy ; 2448 parish registers commence from a.d. 1558 to 1603, when the canons authorized by King James directed a copy of all extant parish registers to be made and preserved ; and nearly one half of them (5082) have been preserved accordingly, and are now extant. Parish registers to the number of 969 commence between that time to the year 1650 ; 2757 from a. d. 1650 to 1700 ; 1476 parish registers from a. d. 1700 to the year 1750; the rest (six or seven hundred) since that time.”
In addition to the registers heretofore and now kept under the sanction of ordinances and acts of parliament, there is a vast number of non-parochial registers and records of' marriages, births and baptisms, deaths, or burials, which have been kept in some instances from a very remote period by various dissenting congregations, and in many cases w’ith great care and correctness, but in no form produced by authority, and under no legal sanction ; and which were therefore not admitted in evidence as registers in courts of justice.
In September 1836, a commission was issued, which has been renewed in the present reign, directing certain commissioners to inquire into the state, custody, and authenticity of such registers or records ; “ and to inquire whether any or what measures could be beneficially adopted for collecting and arranging all or any of such registers or records, and for depositing the same, or copies thereof, in the office of the registrar-general of births, deaths, and marriages, or for otherwise preserving the same ; and also to consider and advise the proper measures to be adopted for giving full force and effect in evidence, in all courts of justice, to all such registers as might be found accurate and faithful, and for facilitating the production and reception of the same.” The commissioners have reported the result of their labours, from which report it appears, that about 7000 non-parochial registers have been transmitted to them for inspection from 3630 religious congregations, namely,
Foreign Protestant churches......................37
Presbyterians, Independents, and Baptists...2264
Wesleyan Methodists..............................618
Moravians.............................................10
Lady Huntingdon’s Connection..................44
Calvinistic Methodists.............................436
Swedenborgians.....................................21
Total..................3430
“ Each of these registers,” says the Report, “ was authenticated by a certificate under the signature of the minister, or of some officer of the church or denomination, from whom it was received ; and this certificate was generally accompanied by answers to the questions which had been circulated by the commissioners.” After being “ classed
in lists according to the several counties in England and Wales, and entered in a book, with a careful annotation of any particulars applicable to their state or custody,” they were “ submitted to the inspection of the board, by whom the question as to their admissibility was discussed and recorded ; and in every instance the chairman, or the commissioner representing the chairman, authenticated such inspection and examination, by affixing his initials to the first and last entry in each register ; or if some parts of the register appeared to be copies, or not to bear marks of authenticity, he affixed his initials to such parts only as were deemed original or authentic.” With respect to all such registers as have thus been examined and deemed authentic, wholly or in part, the commissioners recommend, “ that they be kept together in some secure place of deposit, under the care of the Registrar-General, or of some other officer to be appointed for that purpose, that, under certain conditions, they be receivable in evidence in all courts of justice:” that the authorized custos of these registers shall permit searches, and grant certified extracts, on payment of moderate fees ; and that on payment of a reasonable fee he shall produce any original register deposited with him, on 
SUbpeena
or order of a competent tribunal : “ that all criminal proceedings shall be by production of the original ! that in all other cases, copies or extracts, certified by the officer having custody of the original, shall, after notice, be receivable as evidence of the birth, baptism, marriage, death, or burial to which it relates, subject to the following regulations : that in courts of law, or at quarter-sessions, any party intending to use any certified extract from any register before mentioned, in evidence, on the trial of any cause, or hearing of any appeal, shall give notice in writing to the opposite party, his attorney or agent, of his intention to use such certified extract as evidence at such trial or hearing, and at the same time shall deliver to him a copy of the extract, and of the certificate thereof, in order that there may be a full opportunity to ascertain whether the authenticity, genuineness, or correctness of the entry may be liable to objection ; and in proof of such notice and delivery, or on admission of the receipt of such notice and copy, such certified extract shall be received in evidence at the trial or hearing, provided the judge or court shall be of opinion that such service had been made a reasonable time before such trial : that in case any party, instead of making proof by certified extract, intends to produce any original register in evidence, he shall nevertheless, within a reasonable time, give to the opposite party notice of his intention, together with a copy of a certified extract of the entry which he intends to offer in evidence.” The recommendations respecting the admission of registers, or certified extracts, in courts of equity, and in ecclesiastical courts, are similar in character, containing only such variations as the different practice of those courts requires.
The registration of births, and deaths, and marriages in
France
is conducted under the provisions of the
Code Civil
of Napoleon. The
maire
of each
commune,
of which there are about 37,300 in France, is the registering officer charged with the duty of registering, in books provided for the purpose, all births, deaths, and marriages, occurring within his commune. Births and deaths are registered in duplicate, the former upon information, in the presence of two witnesses, and are signed in duplicate by the informant, the two witnesses, and the registering officer ; in the case of deaths, one of the witnesses may be also tlle informant. Marriages are registered in the presence of four witnesses, and signed by the parties, the witnesses, and the registering officer. The register of births records the year, day, hour, and place of birth ; the sex and name of the child ; the names, surnames, professions, and residences of parents, witnesses, and informant ; the date of registration, and the name and quality of the registering officer ; and must be
signed by him, by the witnesses, and by the informant. When tlle child is illegitimate, the name of the father cannot be given except by the authority of the father himself.
The register of deaths records tlle year, day, hour, and place of death ; the name, surname, age, profession, and residence of the deceased person ; the names, surnames, ages, professions, and residences of the parents of the deceased, and of the witnesses ; and the name and surname of the husband or wife, if the deceased was married ; also the date of registration, and the name and quality of tlle registering officer.
The register of marriages records the names, surnames, ages, professions, places of birth, and residences of the parties ; the names, surnames, professions, and residences of their respective parents, and of the four witnesses, with the relation in which they stand to the parties ; the consent of the parents ; whether the marriage has been opposed ; time and place of solemnization and registration ; and the name and quality of the registering officer.
Registration of births is secured by a provision, which requires, under pain of fine and imprisonment, from the father of the child, or, in default of the father, from some person present and assisting at the birth, a declaration thereof, within three days afterwards, to the registering officer, to whom the child must also be shown.
The registration of deaths is secured by a provision rendering it penal for a burial to take place without the registering officer having first seen the body and registered the death.
The registers are closed at the end of every year, with formalities which preclude interpolation. Alphabetical indexes are annually formed in duplicate for each. One of the duplicate registers, with its index, remains in the commune to which it belongs ; the other is transmitted to the tribunal of the district, where it is examined and placed under the superintendence of the
procureur du roi,
or the local officer of the crown. Abstracts are made by the registering officer of each tommune, a copy of which is transmitted to the sub-prefevt, who from thence frames an abstract for his arrondissement, a copy of which he sends to the prefect ; he also from the abstracts of the arrondissement makes an abstract for his department ; and copies of such abstracts are sent by the prefects of departments to be deposited in a central office at Paris.
The system of registration observed in France was introduced into Belgium, Geneva, and the Rhenish provinces of Prussia when under the dominion of France, and is still retained in those countries.
In Austria, registers of births, deaths, and marriages are kept by each minister of the church for his parish, and also by the Jewish rabbin for those of their own persuasion.
The register of births records the year, month, and day of birth ; the number of the house in which the birth occurred ; the name of the child and its sex, and whether it be born in wedlock or illegitimate; the names and surnames of the parents ; their religion ; and the names, and surnames, and condition of the sponsors. In the case of illegitimate children, the name of the father cannot be entered unless he acknowledges the paternity.
The register of deaths records the year, month, and day of death ; the number of the house in which it occurred ; the name, religion, sex, and stated age of the deceased ; and, when the information of a physician or surgeon can be supplied, the name of the fatal disease. For this purpose medical men are required to inform the minister, in writing, of the cause of death of such patients as they have attended.
The register of marriages records the year, month, and day of the marriage ; the place of solemnization ; the names and surnames of the parties ; their religion, age, and whether single or widowed ; and the names, and surnames, and condition of the witnesses.
Bishops, on every visitation of their dioceses, are obliged to call for the production of the registers of births, deaths, and marriages. The provincial authorities are also required to ascertain whether these registers are kept in all places as prescribed by law.
Annual abstracts must be made by the ministers and the rabbin, of which copies must be sent to the district of the conscriptions, and to the office of the circle.
In
Prussia,
except the Rhenish provinces, registration is committed to the clergyman of the parish amongst Christians, and to the elders amongst Jews. The clergyman is bound to enter the births, marriages, and deaths, of persons who are not of the established church, but who are “ simply tolerated,” on the declaration of the parties or their ministers, and to include these declarations in his annual returns. Duplicates of the registers are to be made, and at the end of each year deposited, when examined and verified, in the local civil court, being “ the tribunal of the place.”
(Report by the Select Committee on Parochial Registration,
1833;
Historyof Parish Registers in England,
by J. S. Burn, 1829 ;
Population Abstract for
1831 ;
Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the State, Custody, and Authenticity of Registers or Records of Births or Baptisms, Deaths or Burials, and Marriages, in England and Wales, otlier than Parochial Registers,
1838 ;
Manuel des Officiers de FEtat Civilpour ία tenue des Registres, 
par A. E. le Mott, Paris, 1827.)    (y. y.)
REGNARD, John Fbancis, one of the best French comic writers after Molière, was born at Paris in the year 1647. He had scarcely finished his studies, when an ardent passion for travelling led him to traverse the greater part of Europe. Having settled in his own country, he was made a treasurer of France, and lieutenant of the waters and forests. He wrote a great many comedies ; and, though naturally of a lively genius, died of chagrin in the fifty-second year of his age. His works, consisting of comedies and travels, were printed at Rouen, in 1732, in five vols. 12mo.
REGNIER, Mathurin, the first French poet who succeeded in satire, was bom at Chartres in the year 1573. He was brought up to the church, a vocation for which his debaucheries rendered him very unsuitable ; and these, by his own confession, were so excessive that at thirty he laboured under all the infirmities of age. Yet he obtained a canonry in the church of Chartres, with other benefices, and died in 1613. There is a neat Elzevir edition of his works, Leyden, 1652, in 12mo ; but the most elegant is that with notes by Brossette, London, 1729, in 4to.
Regnikr des Marets,
Séraphin,
a French poet, born at Paris in the year 1632. He distinguished himself early by his poetical talents, and in 1684 was made perpetual secretary to the French Academy on the death of Mezeray. It was he who drew up all the papers in the name of the academy against Furetière. The king gave him the priory of Gram-mont, and he had also an abbey. Regnier died in 1713, and his works, in French, Italian, Spanish, and Latin poems, are contained in two vols. ; besides a French grammar, and an Italian translation of Anacreon’s Odes, with some other translations.
REGRATOR signifies a person who buys and sells any wares or victuals in the same market or fair ; and regrators are particularly described to be those who buy, or get into their hands, in fairs or markets,any grain, fish, butter, cheese, sheep, lambs, calves, swine, pigs, geese, capons, hens, chickens, pigeons, conies, or other dead victuals whatsoever, brought to a fair or market to be sold there, and do sell the same again in the same fair, market, or place, or in some other within four miles thereof.
Regrating is thus a kind of
huchstry,
by which victuals are made dearer ; for every seller must gain something, and this consequently will enhance the price. In ancient times, both the engrosser and regrator were comprehended under
the word
forestalleτ.
Regrators are punishable by loss and forfeiture of goods, and imprisonment, according to the first, second, or third offence. But the modem science of Political Economy has taught us to view the practices of regrating and forestalling with far other eyes than those of our forefathers.
REGULAR denotes anything that is agreeable to rule. Thus we say, a regular building, a regular verb, and the like.
A regular figure, in geometry, is one the sides, and consequently the angles, of which are equal ; and a regular figure with three or four sides is commonly termed an
equilateral triangle
or
square,
as all others with more sides are called
regular polygons.
Regular
Body,
called also
Platonic Body,
is a body or solid comprehended by like, equal, and regular plane figures, and the solid angles of which are all equal. The plane figures by which the solid is contained are the faces of the solid ; and the sides of the plane figures are tlle edges or linear sides of the solid.
There are only five regular solids, viz. the tetrahedron, or regular triangular pyramid, having four triangular faces ; the hexahedron, or cube, having six square faces ; the octahedron, having eight triangular faces ; the dodecahedron, having twelve pentagonal faces ; and the icosahedron, having twenty triangular faces. Besides these five, there can be no other regular bodies in nature.
Regular, in a monastery, is a person who has taken the vows, and is so called because he is bound to observe the rules of the order he has embraced.
REGULUS, M. Attilius, served as consul during the first Punic war. He reduced Brundusium, and in his second consulship he took sixty-four and sunk thirty galleys of the Carthaginian fleet, on the coasts of Sicily. Afterwards he landed in Africa ; and so rapid was his success, that in a short time he made himself master of about two hundred places of consequence on the coast. The Carthaginians sued for peace, but the conqueror refused to grant it ; but soon afterwards he was defeated by Xanthippus, when thirty thousand of his men were left on the field of battle, and fifteen thqusand taken prisoners. Regulus was amongst the number of the captives, and he was carried in triumph to Carthage. He was sent by the enemy to Rome to propose an accommodation and an exchange of prisoners ; and if his commission proved unsuccessful, he was bound by the most solemn oaths to return to Carthage without delay. When he arrived at Rome, Regulus dissuaded his countrymen from accepting the terms which the enemy proposed ; and when his opinion had had due influence on the senate, Regulus returned to Carthage agreeably to his engagements. The Carthaginians were told that their offers of peace had been rejected at Rome by means of Regulus ; and for this reason they prepared to punish him with the greatest severity. His eye-brows were cut, and he was exposed for some days to the excessive heat of the meridian sun, and afterwards confined in a baιτel, the sides of which were everywhere filled with large iron pikes, till he died in the greatest agonies. His sufferings were heard of at Rome ; and the senate permitted his widow to inflict whatever punishment she pleased on some of the most illustrious captives of Carthage which were in their hands. She confined them also in presses filled with sharp iron points ; and was so exquisite in her cruelty, that the senate interfered, and stopped the barbarity of her punishment. Regulus died about 251 years before Christ.
Regulus, in
Astronomy,
a star of the first magnitude, in the constellation Leo. It is also called, from its situation, 
Cor Leonis,
or the
Lion’s Heart ;
by the Arabs,
Alhabor ; 
and by the Chaldieans,
Kalbeleced,
or
Karbeleceid,
from an opinion of its influencing the affairs of the heavens.
Regulus, in
Chemistry,
the metallic matter which falls
to the bottom of the crucible, in the melting of ores or impure metallic substances. It is the finest or purest part of the metal ; and, according to the alchemists, is denominated 
regulus,
or little king, as being the first-born of the royal metallic blood.
REHEARSAL, in
Music
and the
Drama,
an essay or experiment of some composition, generally made in private, previous to its representation or performance in public, in order to render the actors and performers more perfect in their respective parts.
REHER, a town and district of Hindustan, in the province of Delhi. The town has much declined in consequence of the seat of government having been removed to Nijibabad. It is eighty miles north-north-west from Bareily. Long. 104. 35. E. Lat. 57. N. The district is situated between the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth degrees of north latitude. It formerly constituted the northern limit of Kut-taher or Rohilcund, and was ceded to the British by the nabob of Oude in the year 1801. Both town and district are now included in the collectorship of Bareily.
REICHENBACH, one of the three provincial governments of Prussia, into which the province of Silesia is divided. It is composed of the southern part of the ancient lower Silesia, with the addition of the principality of Mun-sterberg and the county of Glatz. It is bounded on the north-east by Breslau, on the north-west by Leignitz, on the south-east by Oppeln and the Austrian province of Moravia, and on the south-west by Bohemia. In extent it is 2640 square miles, comprehending thirty-six cities and towns, and 905 villages, besides many hamlets. The population, according to the census of 1817, was 644,025, and had increased, at the enumeration of 1826, to 713,936, of which the Catholics and the Protestants were nearly equal in number. Divided into thirteen circles, it is the most densely peopled of any portion of the kingdom of Prussia, and the great district in which was carried on that large manufacture of linen for which Silesia was long celebrated. It is generally a hilly, and in some parts a mountainous district ; and the soil, not being of great fertility, scarcely produces sufficient com for the consumption of the inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name, and stands on the river Peilau. It is surrounded with double walls and ditches, and contains two Catholic and three Lutheran churches, 460 houses, with 4350 inhabitants. It has considerable manufactories of linens and woollens, and some of cottons, besides several breweries and distilleries. Long. 16. 31. 7. E. Lat. 50. 59. 15. N.
REICHENBERG, a city of the Austrian kingdom of Bohemia, in the circle of Buntzlau. It is situated on the river Neisse, and has a cathedral church, a palace, and 1200 houses, inhabited by between thirteen and fourteen thousand persons, occupied in various branches of manufacture, but chiefly woollen cloth, for which it forms the chief market in an extensive district.
REID, Dr Thomas, a distinguished philosopher, and in some measure the founder of a school, was the son of Lewis Reid, minister of the parish of Strachan, in the county of Kincardine, Scotland. His mother, the daughter of Mr Gregory of Kinnairdie, in Banffshire, was one of twenty-nine children, and sister to David, James, and Charles Gregory, who were at the same period professors of astronomy or mathematics in the universities of Oxford, Edinburgh, and St Andrews.
Dr Reid was born at the parsonage-house of Strachan in April 1710, and received the elementary parts of his education at the parish-school of Kincardine O’Neil. The parochial schools of Scotland are said to have been much superior at that period to what they are at present, and young men went from them well furnished with philological learning to the different universities. The early progress of young Reid must have been very extraordinary,
since he was qualified to profit by the lectures of the professors at the age of twelve. He soon gave very striking' proofs that he inherited the genius of his mother’s family, and was conspicuous amongst the students of mathematics, in a college where that science has always been cultivated with zeal and success. He continued longer at the university than the usual term of years, having been appointed to the office of librarian, a situation which was every way agreeable to him, as it gave him ample opportunities of gratifying his passion for study. About this time he became intimately attached to John Stewart, afterwards professor of mathematics in Marischal College, a connection which greatly strengthened his predilection for mathematical studies.
He resigned the office of librarian in the year 1736, and accompanied Mr Stewart to England, when they paid a visit to London, Oxford, and Cambridge, and were introduced to several persons of the first literary distinction. On account of his relation to Dr David Gregory, he had ready access to the celebrated Martin Folkes, whose house might be said to contain many of the most interesting objects to be met with in the metropolis. He saw Dr Bentley at Cambridge, with whose erudition he was much delighted, as well as amused with his vanity ; and he also conversed frequently with Saunderson, the blind mathematician. Dr Reid in his philosophical speculations refers to this gentleman’s blindness, as a singular phenomenon in the history of the human mind.
Dr Reid maintained an uninterrupted friendship with the learned and amiable Mr Stewart until the year 1766, at which time the latter was carried off by a malignant fever. The circumstances attending the death of this excellent man deeply wounded the sensibility of Dr Reid ; for his wife and daughter were carried ofl' by the same disorder, and buried with him in the same grave.
The King’s College of Aberdeen presented Dr Reid to the living of New Machar in the year 1737 ; but such was the zeal of the people against the law of patronage at that time, that he not only met with violent opposition, but was also exposed to personal danger. But his attention to the duties of his office was so exemplary, his temper so mild and forbearing, and his spirit of humanity so active, that in a short time he subdued their prejudices ; and when at last called in the course of Providence to a different situation, the very people who had been guilty of gross and indecent outrages against him followed him, on his departure, with their benedictions and tears.
In the year 1740, he married Elizabeth, daughter of his uncle, Dr George Reid, physician in London, after which his popularity at New Machar very much increased. Her manners were so accommodating, and so numerous were her kind offices to the sick and the indigent, that the departure of the family from the neighbourhood was looked upon as a general misfortune. The manner in which several old men were accustomed to speak upon the subject is worthy of being kept in remembrance. “ We fought,” said they, “ against Dr Reid when he came, and we would have fought for him when he went away.”
The greater part of his time during his residence at New Machar was devoted to the most intense study, particularly directing his attention to the laws of external perception, and of the other principles which constitute the basis of human knowledge. He unbended his mind by the amusements of gardening and botany, of which he was extremely fond, even in old age.
The professors of King’s College, in the year 1752, made choice of Dr Reid to be professor of philosophy, originating wholly from the high opinion they were led to entertain of his talents and erudition. We are not acquainted with the particular plan which he adopted and pursued in the course of his lectures ; but his department at that period comprehended mathematics and physic, logic and
ethics ; a practice then followed in the other universities of Scotland, instead of appointing a professor for each distinct branch.
Dr Reid had not been long in Aberdeen, till, in conjunction with Dr John Gregory, he projected a literary society, which continued for a number of years, and met once a week. The writings of Reid, Gregory, Campbell, Beattie, and Gerard, evince the numerous advantages which the members derived from this institution, as they were in the habit of subjecting such works as they intended for publication, to the test of friendly criticism.
It is perhaps not too much to assert, that of all the publications which appeared about this time, the Inquiry into the Human Mind by Dr Reid discovered by far the greatest originality and profound thinking. It appears that he had conceived the plan, and deeply meditated upon it, long before its publication ; yet, without the applause of his literary associates, it is more than probable that his native modesty would have prevented him from giving it to the world.
The publication of Mr Hume’s Treatise of Human Nature, in 1739, lcd him to question the principles commonly received with regard to the human understanding. He admitted, when a youth, but without any attentive examination, the opinions on which Mr Hume’s scepticism was raised ; but when he carefully adverted to the consequences which these principles appeared to involve, he instantly began to suspect their truth. To subvert the sceptical theory of Mr Hume was the grand object of Dr Reid’s Inquiry, which he submitted to the examination of Mr Hume himself. That philosopher, even after he had seen some parts of the work, discovers not a little of the Jewish spirit of unbelief that any good thing should come out of Nazareth ; and considering his antagonist as a clergyman, and belonging to an order of men from whom prejudice would not allow him to expect any soundness of reasoning in matters of science, he betrays more than want of good humour, as Dr Reid’s biographer expresses himself, when he says, in no very courteous language, in a letter to Dr Blair, “ I wish that the parsons would confine themselves to their old occupation of worrying one another, and leave philosophers to argue with temper, moderation, and good manners.” But though Mr Hume, as appears from the words just quoted, was very angry that a clergyman should become a philosopher, on a second perusal of the Inquiry, he seems to have held very different sentiments, when he wrote to the author himself in the following terms. “ By Dr Butleris means, I have been favoured with the perusal of your performance, which I have read with great pleasure and attention. It is certainly very rare, that a piece so deeply philosophical is wrote [written] with so much spirit, and affords so much entertainment to the reader ; though I must still regret the disadvantages under which I read it, as I never had the whole performance at once before me, and could not be able fully to compare one part with another. To this reason, chiefly, I ascribe some obscurities, which, in spite of your short analysis or abstract, still seem to hang over your system. For I must do you the justice to own, that when I entered into your ideas, no man appears to ex-
i
>ress himself with greater perspicuity than you do ; a ta-ent which, above all others, is requisite in that species of literature which you have cultivated....As I was desirous to be of some use to you, I kept a watchful eye all along over your style ; but it is really so correct, and so
good 
English, that I found not any thing worth the remarking. There is only one passage in this chapter, where you make use of the phrase
hinder to do
instead of
hinder from doing, 
which is the English one ; but I could not find the passage when I sought for it. You may judge how unexceptionable thc whole appeared to me, when I could remark so small a blemish.”
The impression made on the minds of speculative men by the publication of Dr Reid’s Inquiry was as great as could reasonably be expected from the nature of his undertaking. It was not level to the comprehension of the multitude, nor even addressed to them ; and as it examined opinions with the utmost freedom which had obtained the sanction of the highest authorities, it had little prospect of conciliating the favour of the learned. Some, however, there were, who perceived the extent of his views, and beheld in his pages the true spirit and language of inductive investigation, which made proselytes of many, who, again, warmly recommended the work to the attention of others. The Inquiry of Dr Reid was so much esteemed by the learned body of teachers then in the University of Glasgow*, that they gave him an invitation to the vacant professorship of moral philosophy in the year 1763. It was no doubt with a considerable degree of reluctance that he resolved to leave Aberdeen ; yet so numerous were the allurements which Glasgow presented to a man of his extensive erudition and deep research, that he gave it the preference. That seminary of learning could then boast of a Moor, a Simpson, a Black, a Leechman, the two Wilsons, father and son, and the acute, discriminating Millar, with all of whom he was more or less intimate, and whose fascinating conversation made him in some measure forget that he had long been acquainted with men of genius in the university of Aberdeen.
Dr Reid’s merit as a public teacher arose principally from that fund of original philosophy which is characteristic of his writings, and from his invincible patience and perseverance in recommending such principles as he conceived to be of the last importance to human happiness. His style, too, was simple and perspicuous ; his character was grave and possessed of authority ; and his students felt such an interest in the doctrines which he inculcated, that he never failed to be heard with the most profound attention.
In the year 1773 his remarks on Aristotle’s logic appeared in Lord Karnes’s Sketches of the History of Man. “ In attempting,” says he, “ to give some account of the Analytics and of the Topics of Aristotle, ingenuity [ingenuousness] obliges me to confess, that though I have often purposed to read the whole with care, and to understand what is intelligible, yet my courage and patience always failed before I had done. Why should I throw away so much time and painftd attention upon a thing of so little use ? If I had lived in those ages when the knowledge of Aristotle’s 
Organon
entitled a man to the highest rank in philosophy, ambition might have induced me to employ upon it some years of painful study ; and less, I conceive, would not be sufficient. Such reflections as these always got the better of my resolution when the first ardour began to cool. All I can say is, that I have read some part of the different books with care, some slightly, and some perhaps not at all. I have glanced over the whole often ; and when any thing attracted my attention, have dipped into it till my appetite was satisfied.”
But, in spite of his modest declarations, it is matter of doubt with some, whether any of his publications does him more honour than his perspicuous view of this complicated system. It is unquestionably superior to any other analysis of these writings that we have yet seen ; an opinion amply confirmed by the sentiments of different literary characters who were intimately acquainted with the works of tlle great philosopher of antiquity.
Dr Reid declined reading lectures in the university for some years before his death ; and he devoted this period to the task of preparing for the press his great work, which was published in two volumes 4to, the first in 1785, entitled Essays on the Intellectual Powers of Man ; and the second in 1788, entitled Essays on the Active Powers of
Man. His Essay on Quantity, occasioned by reading a Treatise in which Simple and Compound Ratios are applied to Virtue and Merit, was composed previously to the year 1748, and published in the Philosophical Transactions of London for that year. This paper affords some light respecting the progress of his speculations about the period in question. The Inquiry into the Human Mind, of which we have already taken notice, appeared in 1764 ; and at this time he was complimented with the degree of Doctor in Divinity.
In the year 1796, the last of his life, he was prevailed upon to spend with his friends at Edinburgh a few weeks during the summer. From that visit he returned to Glasgow in his usual health and spirits, and for some time continued to devote a portion of his time to the exercise both of body and of mind. But about the end of September he was seized with a violent disorder, with which he maintained a severe struggle ; and this, together with repeated strokes of the palsy, put a period to his long and useful life <jn the 7th of October, and in the eighty-seventh year of his age.
As to his bodily constitution, few men have ever been more indebted to nature than Dr Reid. In this respect he was athletic and vigorous, and his muscular strength was uncommonly great ; advantages which were powerfully seconded by his temperance, exercise, and the unclouded serenity of his temper. Deep and collected thought was very conspicuous in his countenance, and all his looks were expressive of kindness and good will.
With respect to his character, his rectitude was inflexible and intrepid ; his attachment to truth was pure ; and he had an entire command over all his passions, which he acquired by the unwearied exertions of a long life. When, therefore, he found it necessary to dispute the conclusions of others in any of his writings, he never employed any expressions to irritate those whom he was anxious to convince ; and the asperity of his opponents could not provoke him to repress his spirit of liberality and good humour ; for he considered the intemperance with which controversy is carried on, as an enemy to the progress of useful knowledge, and as having done more harm to the practice than service to the theory of morality. He uniformly maintained the dignity of philosophy in private life, and he united in his character the most amiable modesty and gentleness with the noblest spirit of independence. He never solicited any favours from the great ; and all his academical or other preferments were conferred upon him by those who were real judges of his merit, and thought he deserved them. To a sound, cautious, and discriminating judgment, a singular patience and perseverance of thought, and fixed attention to the operations of his own mind, he added the curiosity of a naturalist and the eyes of an observer ; and of course his information was accurate and extensive. His sensibility was of an active and lively nature ; and wherever he could command the means of relieving the distressed, he always employed them with the utmost possible secrecy. The life of Dr Reid, by his disciple and friend Mr Dugald Stewart, the great ornament of his master’s school, is known to all the world as one of the first specimens of philosophical biography that any language can furnish.
REIGATE, or Ryegate, a market and borough town of tlle county of Surrey, in the hundred of its own name, twenty-two miles from London. It is situated in a pleasant valley at the foot of the Chalk Hills, upon a branch of the river Mole. It has a weekly market on Tuesday, and a monthly one for cattle on Wednesday. It is an ancient borough, and, until 1832, returned two members to parliament, but it now returns only one. The population of the borough amounted in 1801 to 923, in 1811 to 1128, in 1821 to 1323, and in 1831 to 1419; but the Foreign, a part of
the parish now added to the borough, contained, in 1831, 1978 inhabitants, making in all a population of 3397.
REISKE, John James, a profound scholar and eminent critic, was born in the year 1706, at a small town in the duchy of Anhalt, in Germany. His connections, it would appear, were in a humble situation of life ; and, in consequence of the narrow circumstances in which he was placed, he had many difficulties to struggle with during the early part of his education. These, however, he surmounted by unabating perseverance ; and in 1733 went to Leipsic, where he remained during five years in the ardent pursuit of his studies. Here he acquired an extensive knowledge of the Arabic, and engaged in the translation of a book from that language, which was afterwards published. With the view of prosecuting to greater advantage the study of Arabic, which had become with him a favourite object of pursuit, he travelled on foot to Leyden, where new difficulties attended him. Whilst he remained there he was employed in arranging the Arabic manuscripts belonging to the university ; and for this labour he received a very small compensation. During his residence at Leyden, part of his time was occupied in the translation of various essays from the German and French languages into Latin. These essays afterwards appeared in the
Miscellanea Crilica.
About the same time, also, our learned author translated into Latin the whole of the
Chariton
from the Greek, and the Geography of Abul-feda from the Arabic.
Having spent eight years at Leyden, Reiske was driven from this place by jealousy and calumny, which, it is said, were excited against him chiefly by the younger Burmann, in consequence of his critical strictures on tlle edition of Petronius published by that author ; but before his departure from this learned seminary, he had obtained the degree of doctor of physic, which was conferred in a manner highly to his honour. He afterwards visited different parts of Germany, and at last settled a second time at Leipsic, where he remained for twelve years. But although he had received the appointment of professor of Arabic, the emoluments of his office were so scanty, that he had still to struggle with all the difficulties attendant on poverty, and, merely to procure a subsistence, was obliged to engage in the humble employments of literary labour, and submit to the severe and ill-requited drudgery of editing works for booksellers, or contributing detached papers to periodical publications. About this time the
Acta Eruditorum
were greatly indebted to the labours of Reiske. But in the midst of all the difficulties and hardships now alluded to, he prepared and published a work of profound learning and great merit. This work, which extended to five volumes, appeared under the title of
Anirnadversiones in Auctores Gr<e∙ cos,
and added much to our author’s reputation.
In the year 1758, in consequence of the death of Hal-tausius, he obtained a situation, which was not only honourable, but lucrative. This was the place of rector of the academy of Leipsic, in which he continued during the remainder of his life. He was now raised above want, and being free from the difficulties and embarrassments which had hitherto constantly attended him, he w, as thus enabled, in the midst of learned ease, to prosecute his favourite studies.
In the year 1764 Reiske married E. C. Muller, a woman of great learning, and of whom it is said that her knowledge, especially in Greek literature, was little inferior to that of her husband. In all his literary labours she was an useful associate ; but the assistance which she contributed to his great work, the edition of the Greek Orators, was particularly valuable. Thus passed the latter period of the life of this learned man. He died in 1774, possessing a very distinguished reputation as a scholar and a critic. The number of the works which he superintended and published is very great. The most approved are the following, viz. Remarks upon Greek Authors ; an Edition of the Greek Ora
tors, in twelve vols. 8vo ; Dionysius Halicarnassensis, in seven vols. ; and Plutarch’s Works, in nine vols.
REITRA, a city of the Austrian province of the Hither Danube, in Hungary, and the capital of a circle of the same name, which comprehends 412 towns and villages, with 368,000 inhabitants. The city is situated on the river of the same name, is the see of a bishop, is defended by a strong citadel, and contains 510 houses, with 4100 inhabitants, who grow much good wine. Long. 18. 58. 54. E. Lat. 48. 19. 10. N.
REJANG, a country in the island of Sumatra, bounded on the east by the territory of Musi, where the Palembang river takes its rise. Bencoolen river is the limit on the south-east. The other principal rivers are the Laye, the Pally, and the Sunzedano, on all of which the English have factories. The Rejangs are divided into tribes, of which there are four principal ones. They live in villages under the government of a head or magistrate, and the inhabitants seldom exceed 100.
RELAND, Adrian, an eminent orientalist, born at Ryp, in North Holland, in 1676. During three years’ study under Surenhusius, he made uncommon progress in the Hebrew, Syriac, Chaldaic, and Arabic languages, and these languages were always his favourite study. In 1701, he was, by the recommendation of King William, appointed professor of oriental languages and ecclesiastical antiquities in the university of Utrecht, and died of the small-pox in 1718. He was distinguished by his modesty, humanity, and learning ; and carried on a correspondence with the most eminent scholars of his time. His principal works are, 1. An excellent Description of Palestine ; 2. Five Dissertations on the Medals of the ancient Hebrews and several other dissertations on different subjects ; 3. An Introduction to the Hebrew Grammar 4. The Antiquities of the ancient Hebrews ; and, 5. On the Mahommedan Religion. These works are all written in Latin
RELAY, a supply of tΛ.ses placed on the road, and appointed to be ready for the traveller to enable him to change, and thus make the greater expedition.
RELICS, in the Church of Rome, the remains of the bodies or clothes of saints or martyrs, and the instruments by which they were put to death, devoutly preserved, in honour of their memory.
The respect which was justly due to the martyrs and the teachers of the Christian faith increased in the course of time almost to adoration ; and at length all but divine honour was really paid both to departed saints and to relics of holy men or holy things. Such was the rage for them at one time, that, as Mabillon, a Benedictine, justly complains, the altars were loaded with suspected relics, numerous spurious ones being everywhere offered to the piety and devotion of the faithful. He adds, too, that bones are often consecrated, which, so far from belonging to saints, probably do not belong to Christians. From the catacombs numerous relics have been taken, and yet it is not known who were the persons interred therein. In the eleventh century, relics were tried by fire, when those which did not consume were reckoned genuine, and the rest not. Relics were, and still are, sometimes preserved on the altars whereon mass is celebrated.
The Romanists plead antiquity in behalf of the respect paid to relics. The Manicheans, say they, out of hatred to the flesh, which they considered as an evil principle, refused to honour the relics of saints ; and this is reckoned a kind of proof that the Christians in the first ages did so. We know, indeed, that the touching of linen cloths on relics, from an opinion of some extraordinary virtue derived therefrom, was as ancient as the first ages ; there being a hole made expressly for the purpose in the coffins of the forty martyrs at Constantinople. The honouring the relics of saints, on which the Church of Rome afterwards founded her superstitious and lucrative use of them, as objects of devotion, as a kind of charms or amulets, and as instruments of pretended miracles, appears to have originated in a very ancient custom which prevailed amongst Christians, of assembling at the cemeteries or burying-places of the martyrs, for the purpose of commemorating them, and of performing divine worship. When the profession of Christianity obtained the protection of the civil government, under Constantine the Great, stately churches were erected over their sepulchres, and their names and memories were treated with every possible token of affection and respect. This reverence, however, gradually exceeded all reasonable bounds; and those prayers and religious services which were performed over their tombs were thought to have a peculiar sanctity and virtue. Hence the practice, which afterwards obtained, of depositing relics of saints and of martyrs under the altars in all churches. This practice was then thought of such importance, that St Ambrose would not consecrate a church because it had no relics ; and the council of Constantinople ordained, that those altars should be demolished under which there were not found any relics. The rage of procuring relics for this and other purposes of a similar nature became so excessive, that in 386 the Emperor Theodosius the Great was obliged to pass a law, forbidding the people to dig up the bodies of the martyrs, and to traffic in their remains. Such was the origin of that respect for sacred relics, which, when perverted afterwards, became the occasion of innumerable processions, pilgrimages, and miracles.
RELIEVO, or Relief, in
Sculpture,
is the projection or standing out of a figure which arises prominently from tlle ground or plane on which it is formed, whether that figure be cut with the chisel, moulded, or cast.
There are three kinds or degrees of relievo ; alto, basso, and demi-relievo. The alto-relievo, called also
high-relief, 
is when the figure is formed after nature, and projects as much as the life. Basso-relievo, bas-relief, is when the work is raised a little from the ground, as in medals and the frontispieces of buildings, but particularly in the histories, festoons, foliages, and other ornaments of friezes. Demi-relievo is when one half of the figure rises from the plane. When, in a basso-relievo, there are parts that stand clear out, detached from the rest, the work is called a demi-basso. In architecture, the relief or projection of the ornaments ought always to be proportioned to the magnitude of the building it adorns, and to the distance at which it is to be viewed.
Relievo, or
Relief,
in
Painting,
is the degree of boldness with which the figures appear, at a due distance, to stand out from the ground of the painting.
The relievo depends much upon the depth of the shadow and the strength of the light ; or in the height of the different colours, bordering upon one another, and particularly on the difference of the colour of the figure from that of the ground. Thus, when the light is so disposed as to make tlle nearest parts of the figure advance, and is well diffused on the masses, yet insensibly diminishing, and terminating in a large spacious shadow, brought off insensibly, the relievo is said to be bold, and the clear-obscure well understood.
RELIGION (Religio) is a Latin word, derived, according to Cicero,@@1 from
relegere,
to reconsider ; but, according to Servius and most modem grammarians, from
religare,
to bind fast. The reason assigned by the Roman orator for deducing
religio
from
relego,
is in these words : “ Qui au-
1
@@@ De Natura Deοrum,
lib. ii. sect. 28,
tem omnia, quæ acl cultum deorum pertinerent, diligenter retractarent, et tanquam relegerent, sunt dicti
religiosi
ex 'relegendo.” The reason given by Servius for his derivation of the word is “ quod mentem religio religet.” If the Ciceronian etymology be the true one, the word
religion
will denote the diligent study of whatever pertains to the worship of the gods ; but, according to the other derivation, which we are inclined to prefer, it denotes that obligation which we feel on our minds from the relation in which we stand to some superior power. In either case, tlle import of the word religion is different from that of theology, since the former signifies a number of practical duties, and the latter a system of speculative truths. Theology is therefore
the foundation of religion, or the science from which it springs ; for no man can study what pertains to the worship of superior powers till he believe that such powers exist, or feel any obligation on his mind from a relation of which he knows nothing. The subject, in as far as it can be discussed with advantage in a work of this kind, will accordingly be resumed under the former head. (See Theology.)
RELIGIOUS is used Substantiallyfor a person engaged by solemn vows to the monastic or conventual life ; or a person shut up in a monastery or convent to lead a life of devotion and austerity, under some rule or institution. The male religious are popularly called Monks and Friars; the female, Nuns and Canonesses.
RELIGIOUS MISSIONS.
The present time, says Leibnitz, is the child of the past, and the mother of tlle foture. Yet though every generation derives not only its existence, but in some measure its lot and its fortunes, from the one that preceded it, it is often most influenced by circumstances which attracted least tlιe notice of its immediate predecessor. We are well aware of many of the changes which are taking place around us ; they are such as strike the most inattentive eye. There are others of equal potency, but which force themselves less on observation, and in which a portion only of the community are interested. Such are the religious missions now coming into operation, which are scattering the seeds of new institutions, and laying the foundation of future empires, and wdlich will cause that which is now a waste and howling wilderness to rejoice and blossom as the rose.
Protestant missions are so late in their origin and partial in their establishment, that, if we look merely to themselves, we have scarcely sufficient data for estimating their effects. Fortunately, in the history of the world we may trace the operation of similar causes, and be enabled to estimate upon a great scale, during a long lapse of time, the immense benefits which missions for the diffusion of religious opinions have produced.
At first view it may appear like a paradox to assert that the civilization of the world is greatly owing to religious missions ; and yet no truth in remote antiquity is so well ascertained.
The ancient forms of civilization w ith which we are best acquainted is that of Egypt and Greece in the west, and that of India in the east. The civilization of Egypt was eminently sacerdotal ; it spread with the colonies of the priesthood, and had its chief residence around the temples. The original inhabitants of Egypt long retained traces of their ancient barbarity ; and it was not till the system of life introduced by the sacred caste, and conformed to the religious institutions, was complete, that Egypt assumed that national character which so eminently distinguished it from the surrounding nations. Whether Meroe or Thebes w as the original college of the priests, is of small consequence to the present purpose. From either, new sacred colonies issued out in continued succession and in widening circles, until not only Egypt, but the banks of the higher Nile, and the green islands of the sandy desert, had their temples and their oracles, their arts and their institutions.
But these institutions were not confined to Egypt. These religious colonies crossed over the sea to impart their rites to different lands ; and amongst others the priests of Sais, bringing with them the worship of the divine wdsdom, laid the foundations of a temple to Neith, a name which was afterwards transposed into Athene. From this religious mission, then, Athens, “ the eye of Greece,” and the light of the world in secular wisdom, derived that lustre which length of years has rather increased than impaired.
Not dissimilar from the progress of the priesthood over Egypt was the advance of the Brahminical caste or tribe over India, except that the latter were attended by military companions, and made their way by force of arms as well as that of opinions. Wherever the country was rich and open enough, this well-organized priesthood introduced its temples and its creed, its philosophy and its regulations, institutions that were not indigenous to India, but which were spread over its plains by colonies and conquest ; whilst among the hills are found a race, unmixed with the foreign intruders, speaking a different language, and still following the simple rites of their rude forefathers. Still more widely the rejected offspring of the Brahmins, namely, the Buddhists, have spread as missionaries over the half of Asia, and penetrated alike the seclusion of China, the remoteness of Japan, and the pastoral solitudes of Central Asia.
But these, it may be said, are the missionaries of a false religion. True ; but if so much good has accompanied so much evil and error, what may not be expected from the missionaries of a faith founded upon revelation, who proceed upon their enterprise in more favourable times and with greater resources ?
When the true religion was established in the Jewush nation, it appeared at first view to be stationary rather than progressive. The Jews had the advantage of a central position. They bordered upon the states which in early times did most for the advancement of knowledge, Egypt, Phoenicia, and afterwards the dominions of Assyria and Babylon ; but what facilities the Jewish people gained for spreading their opinions by their being central, was in a great measure lost by their being morally isolated.
Providence, however, unfolded means, independently of the exertion of the Jews, for spreading the knowledge of the divine unity. The other descendants of Abraham, who, as is seen by the book of Job, retained the true religion, obtained that lot amongst the nations which placed them in the direct route by which the early commerce of the world was carried on ; and their favourable position enabled them at once to promote knowledge and to diffuse religion. The two points to which their journeys were especially directed were Sheba and Saba, Arabia Felix, and that part of Africa which still retains in a portion of it the name of Azab. Extending along this line of intercourse, a portion of the Ishmaelites occupied Mecca, in the paucity of Arabian towns early named the Great, at once tlle mart of superstition and commerce ; and where the Ishmaelites united to the worship of the black stone their own religious opinions, a mixture which is observable down to the time of Mahommed, who endeavoured to separate the doctrine of the unity from idolatrous rites, but who, from the inveteracy of ancient habits, was still forced to retain some of the Pagan customs.
We have a subsequent proof of the line of communica*
tion being kept open between Judæa and Arabia Felix, in the journey of the queen of Sheba to Jerusalem in the time of Solomon. And the Jewish religion was still more extensively introduced, whether by early colonists or proselytes, both into Meroë, the dominions of Queen Candace, and also into the remoter mountains of Abyssinia.
The Jewish worship had a strange aspect to the surrounding countries of the Gentiles. To their besotted minds it appeared a wonder and an absurdity that a nation should exist without idols.
Nil præter nubes et coelos numen adorant.
But although the Jews, as far as we have positive information, made but few converts in their prosperity, they became missionaries as soon as they became captives ; and the Israelitish maid who directed Naaman the Syrian for a cure to consult the prophet of her country, indicates to us the way in which a large accession was made from amongst the Gentiles to the true worshippers of Jehovah.
We are better acquainted with the removal of the Jews to the east than with the dispersion on a smaller scale which was taking place towards the west, where the Phtenicians were selling the Jewish captives to the isles of the Gentiles or the coasts of the Mediterranean Sea. We have even in the case of Jonah an instance of a Jew attempting voluntarily to expatriate himself in a Phcenician vessel to Tarshish ; the Tarshish doubtless of the far west, not the Tarsus of Cilicia, but the Tartessus of Spain.
It is striking to observe how the great bulk of the Jewish nation were subsequently dispersed throughout those very tracts which war and commerce opened up in the remotest periods of history ; and how much more their misfortunes have contributed to the success of their tenets than the victories of their ancient kings. The moral influence of the Jewish nation appears to have reached its greatest height when their civil power was on the eve of vanishing, about the time of our Saviour. Dissatisfied with their own sentiments of belief, many in the countries of Greece and Rome were looking to tlιe East, their original instructress, for a deeper philosophy and a more venerable religion ; and whilst many were only the more bewildered amongst the mysteries of eastern superstition, in the case of others the pursuit was not fruitless, for they had revealed to them “ whatever Moses had handed down in his dark volume.”
The influence which the Jews were acquiring is strongly indicated in the jocular excuse which Horace’s friend makes him for not entering upon any business, because it was the “ thirtieth SabbatlCof the Jews, Ortheirsolemn passover; and in the support which the Jews received from “ devout and honourable women not a few” throughout the Roman empire, including sometimes, as in the instance of Poppæa, the empress herself.
The progress ot early Christianity is wonderful, and becomes the more so in proportion as we narrowly inspect the agency by which that progress was carried on. To obtain a just view, we should not dwell too much on the activity of a few, and too little on the backwardness of the many. The first Christians, with some rare exceptions, were men of like passions and of like failings with ourselves. The apostles and disciples had received a command, “ Go and baptize all nations,” without (as far as appears by the record) taking one step to put it into execution. The first missionaries were those involuntary labourers who were driven by persecution to Antioch, in answer to that early petition, “ Pray ye the Lord of the harvest, that He would thrust forth labourers into His harvest.” Still the work was proceeding slowly till Paul appeared, and then, as Christian churches are compared to lights shedding their salutary effulgence over the dangers of the deep, a hundred beacons seemed at once enkindled along every cape and headland, to guide the mariner bewildered on his darksome way.
Christianity, as planted by Paul, took the shortest course to become universal. It followed the line of greatest communication, and took up a position in each of the principal cities ; from thence, as from new centres, to spread its influence over the surrounding country. Its success was various in various places ; slow where the population was remote, scattered, and barbarous ; rapid where it was condensed and civilized. It had nearly attained an early predominance in the most refined region of the earth, that of Asia Minor ; and had it not been immediately checked by tlιe dread and majesty of the empire, and by an early persecution, which showed how different nominal adherents are from real friends whenever a day of trial arrives, its supremacy would have been complete.
It deserves to be remarked, that it was not only by means of the Greek language, but of the Greek race, that Christianity was speedily diffused. To the east of the Roman empire it had its chief seats in the Grecian colonies, reduced indeed under the Parthian sway, but still spirited and intelligent ; and still in its farther progress it kept in the line of the same pre-eminent race, and sprung out again with fresh vigour in the Bactrian regions, where the Greeks, after Alexander, had been extending a kingdom that at one period promised to subjugate the East. From thence Christianity penetrated into China and into Tartary, and, from its ancient success in these quarters, kept in suspense the emperors who wielded the sceptre of Zengis, whether they should desolate the world with the sword in one hand, and the Koran or the Bible in the other.
Much more might have been expected of the popes, for the diffusion, if not of religion, at least of tenets that were favourable to their own interest and sovereignty, than was actually performed by them. Their attention was too much distracted by the quarrels of nominal Christendom, and the more tempting opportunities of increasing their power at home at the expense of Christian kings, to enable them to look steadily and far abroad, or to form any settled plan for extending their spiritual dominion over foreign nations. Another obstacle presented itself, the Papists were inferior in knowledge to the Moslem; the Greek church might boast of some superior civilization ; but the Franks were despiscd by the Saracens for their ignorance and barbarity, as well as held in abomination for their gross idolatry. Their missions therefore were there chiefly confined to tribes of kindred and German origin, whose conversion was facilitated by the greater number of their own tongue and blood having already submitted to the papal sway.
But if the ,popes did little in comparison with their resources, individuals did much. The mission of St Patrick to Ireland may compare in zeal and in success wr ith whatever had been undertaken for the spread of Christianity since the times of Constantine ; and its effects were not confined to Ireland, but spread over Scotland and the north of England, and reached even to Germany. The popes, indeed, when aroused by the fear ofa Tartar invasion, despatched an ill-contrived and hopeless mission to the sovereigns of Tartary, in order to avert the danger which threatened Europe, by converting them ; but any real and disinterested zeal throughout the dark ages is chiefly to be found in individuals, who, like the ingenious but fantastical Raymond Lully, were meditating plans for extending religion whilst the rest of the Christian world were careless and asleep.
The Reformation gave a revival to Popery itself ; and as the Carthaginians sought to regain the resources which they had lost nearer home by founding a new empire in Spain, so the Roman Catholics endeavoured to counterbalance the loss of the third of Europe by extending the spiritual dominions of the church over the regions of the boundless and populous East. Of the Jesuits, with Bacon, regarding their talents and unwearied application, we can only speak with
regret. “ Talis quum sis, utinam noster esses.” “ Seeing they are such, would they were ours.” The Jesuits alone understood the power of education ; but it shows the spirit of the body, how differently they used that mighty instrument in Europe, and in the countries that were beyond the range of Christendom. Where they had to contend with the reformed, they raised up disciples not unequal to the contest ; but where this motive was withdrawn, they soon showed they had no great liking to education for its own sake, for all their arts were employed to train submissive, not enlightened disciples ; and this is an error which Protestants as well as Papists may fall into. All men, good as well as bad, are fond of power, and they naturally, if there is no check over them, retain their disciples longer than is necessary in the state of pupillage. How different would have been the resources of the Jesuits, and how much greater the renown they have justly acquired, had they taken the same pains to instruct their Asiatic and American, that thev did for their European scholars ; and how different would have been the condition, at this day, of their missions throughout the world.
The Reformation, of all religious revivals, least abounded in missionary efforts ; the cause of which, though obvious, has not yet been sufficiently attended to and pointed out. Other changes of religious opinion were owing to the personal exertions of missionaries. The Reformation was spread chiefly by means of writings ; nor otherwise, with the ecclesiastical and secular power united against it, could it so rapidly have penetrated the different countries of Europe. It was the first great manifestation of the power of printing, and, being an unexpected attack, no defences whatever were prepared, as in after-times, against its inroads. The use of so new and mighty an engine seemed to supersede for a time all other exertions ; and the general mind, already stirring and awake, hailed with eagerness the new dawn of civil and religious freedom. Unfortunately thc Reformation, necessarily controversial in its origin, continued, and almost ended, in controversy ; and, immersed in disputes with the Church of Rome, and in dangers from the civil power, and in domestic strifes about standards of orthodoxy, lost first the spirit, and then the form, of sound doctrine, and its fol-low’ers became equally unable and unwilling to proclaim that truth to others which they were forsaking themselves.
The revivals amongst the reformed, and their returns to the primitive doctrine and spirit, were local and sectional, and their eftbrts, of course, were feeble and circumscribed; but they were operated by personal exertion and fervent preaching, and therefore possessed more of a missionary character than the Reformation itself ; and though much less powerful at their centre, spread to a wider circumference, and exerted a remoter influence. The Danes deserve the praise of being amongst the earliest and most persevering of the Protestant nations in planting Christianity in foreign lands. But the plant has too much the air of an exotic still ; it does not fully take root and imbibe its nourishment from the soil ; it wants the strongest symptom of vitality, growth. No cause can prosper that is chiefly dependent upon foreign aid. External force may prop up a stationary and a sinking cause ; but whatever spreads and flourishes must have an interior principle of life.
How numerous were the converts of the Dutch, if we might believe the reports that were given of them ; but when the Dutch dominion was withdrawn, how suddenly did numbers of the Dutch converts disappear. The Dutch, like the Jesuits, were doubtless contented in many instances with an outward conformity to Christianity ; yet still it is striking how slight a hold even the practice of outward rites had upon multitudes, who quietly relapsed into the profession of Paganism. It is evident that primitive Christianity proceeded upon adifferentplan. Itcollecteditsconverts into free societies, who were instructed by native teachers, train
ed to rely upon their own resources, not only in furnishing their own funds, but also in supplying the wants of others, and who, in assuming the form of a church, assumed at the same time the model of a missionary society, and became themselves the new centres from which light and civilization proceeded to still remoter regions.
The zeal, devotion, and activity of the primitive Christians seemed revived in the Moravians, who, scarcely escaped from persecution themselves, proceeded without delay to subject themselves to new trials, and, like the forlorn hope of Christianity, chose the most desperate situations and the most degraded tribes to exemplify what Christianity might be enabled to do in more favourable circumstances, when it had succeeded where all things seemed to be against it.
The Wesleyans, after Christianizing the abandoned districts of England, and encountering the rage of their own savage countrymen, often backed by their civil or religious guides, the neighbouring magistrate or clergyman, have carried the same zeal, dexterity, and success, to the slaves of the West Indies, more docile than their masters ; and to the savages of the remotest countries and islands, less infuriated and dangerous than the rude agricultural population of England.
In the Serampore Mission we might produce equal if not superior names to any of which the Jesuits can boast ; superior to them even in the arts of education when applied to a half-civilized people, and incomparably above them in extending information amongst the general population of the country, and in the most important of all operations, the raising up of native labourers, and creating resources for their maintenance, in part at least, in the country itself.
The London Missionary Society, distinguished for its catholic spirit, and the largeness of its undertakings, has achieved one of the most visible triumphs of Christianity, in bringing so many islands into Subjcction to the mild law of the gospel ; and the Episcopal Church of England, so long eminent for the numerous lights it has given to science, to knowledge, and to morals, is preparing to transplant that learning to the banks of the Ganges ; and the Church of Scotland, after originating a national system of education at home, is laying the commencement of an admirable plan of instruction for the learned region of tlle East. In addition to the different religious denominations, each able from its own resources, if concentrated in any direction, for producing a wide and lasting effect, several single congregations, without extrinsic aid, and with a self-devotion worthy of the apostolic days, send out their own missionary or missionaries, supported by their private funds, and strengthened by their fervent prayers.
Independently of what Britain can effect, with resources far greater than any other nation has yet possessed, a new empire has come into the conflict, with all the energy of youth and freedom, and exulting in the consciousness of ever-growing strength. The Americans are eminently fitted for missionaries. The maxim is scarcely true when applied to them, that of all animals, man is the most rooted in the soil. They move over America as if they were already masters of that great continent, and revisit Europe as another home, and their original birthplace. They bring with them ardent hopes from the land where, in spite of many disappointments, hopes are most speedily and abundantly realized ; and, accustomed to overcome the obstacles of nature, they engage with no less alacrity in the more stubborn contest with the perversity and prejudices of mankind. Their plans are admirably conceived, and in the course of being ably executed ; and they are already receiving their due applause in the dread and detestation of the corrupt priesthood of the East, who deeply feel and sincerely express with what dangerous enemies they have now to deal.
If it be a duty to send the gospel to all nations, it cannot cease to be a duty because we have been unsuccessful in our efforts. The want of success should merely lead us to reconsider the means to be employed. Hume remarks, that, prior to experience, we do not know whether or not the throwing of a pebble against the sky may not produce the ruin of the world. Some with regard to missions seem equally to overlook the proportion between cause and effect, and expect that any efforts, however ill directed, should be crowned with immediate success ; whilst others seem to suppose that no efforts can be successful, that the Orientals never change their opinions, and that they will continue steadfast to the same errors and the same idols which they have worshipped ever since the earliest dawn of history.
But history itself might inform us that all nations have already changed their opinions. In China all modes of superstition are comparatively recent, the oldest, as far as they exist in that country, not being prior to Confucius, at least in their present form. If we look for aboriginal rites in India, we can only trace some broken remains of them amongst the barbarians of the remoter hills, or in the depth of the undisturbed forest. Where are the idols of the countries to the west of the Indus ? They are with the idols of Hamath, Arphad, and Sepharvaim. The beautiful deities of Greece are mingling their dust with the monster gods of the East, in irretrievable and indiscriminate confusion. Whatever obstacles may exist to the spread of Christianity, we cannot reckon amongst them, as of most importance, the obstinate tenacity with which men cleave to their previous opinions. No one need despair of converts since the orphan of Mecca has planted his victorious standards over the ruins of the thrones of Chosroes and Constantine.
Not only are religious opinions continually changing, but all religions at this present moment, with the exception of Christianity, are in a state of continuous decay ; and not merely decaying themselves, but imparting their caducity to the states which uphold them ; and so forcible and rapid is that decline, that it counterbalances both the tendency of society to improve, and of the numbers of mankind to increase. On the contrary, wherever Christianity exists, even in its lowest form, there is an augmentation of the numbers of mankind and an improvement in their condition, so that the balance between Christianity and the unchristianized portions of the world is continually changing ; and whilst Christendom is filling with inhabitants, even to a dread, on the part of some, of an overflow, barbarous tribes are almost disappearing, and the Moslems are decreasing, and the far East is stationary, so that there is a provision making, even without the intention of Europe, for Europeans spreading their augmenting numbers over the remotest shores of the world.
Independently of colonization, the new intercommunity of nations will efface ancient prejudices and national peculiarities. This has already taken place in Europe itself. The former French, were they to rise from the dead, must take their descendants for Englishmen ; and the ancient English might have equal difficulty in recognising their descendants, though, like all insular nations, less subject to change from the influx of foreign manners. Increasing intercourse has its effects upon the remotest districts. Individual originality and national peculiarity have, from continual attrition, lost their salient points, and are wearing away. The same causes which have operated in Europe will operate on a greater scale, though more slowly, on the world at large. The Moslems are forsaking their creed, and, what is still harder, their dress ; and Hindu rajahs quote Shakspeare, and read the Elegant Extracts.
But the loss of old principles would merely produce demoralization, if no new ones were supplied. We are communicating to all the w, orld our vices and our diseases ;
shall we withhold the remedies with which we are combating, and, we trust, successfully struggling against both? We are sending out missionaries of evil, the convict and the runaway, who are adding to the atrocities of savage warfare and of savage life. Their vices spread even faster than themselves, and reach to tribes which the white man has not visited ; and in a still more rapid and wider circle the diseases which are generated amidst the corruption and misery of European society, are spreading desolation and death in recesses where the name of Europe has scarcely been heard. It would be but common charity to send out physicians to these distant tribes, if they could be reached, to combat, with European remedies, diseases originated in Europe ; and it would be most unchristian neglect not to send out the physicians of the soul to apply healing remedies to those moral diseases, the contagion of which, as a nation, we have been so instrumental in extending.
Protestantmissionsare only in their commencement, therefore we have not the means to judge fairly of their success. Success in missions also must be distinguished into two kinds ; the gaining nominal, and the making real converts. We may compare tlle success of the gospel abroad with its results at home. The promised results are great and unconfined ; the real results comparatively small and limited. Multitudes of nominal Christians in our land pay just as much regard to the precepts of the gospel, in all the real business of life, as they do to the injunctions of the Koran. If we number those who are really living under tlle influence of the gospel, success in proportion to tile number of those who proclaim it may be found to be frilly as great abroad as at home. Each missionary effort will be found to have had nearly as much success, and of the same kind and value, as they originally proposed to themselves.
The success of the Jesuits cannot be compared to that of any Protestant mission. Their aim was entirely different. What they asked of their converts, was not so much to embrace opinions, as to submit to rites ; and if they became outwardly Christian, they hoped partly to influence them, and still more their children, whose training would necessarily be placed in their hands. They attempted, and they succeeded in gaining the consideration, and in some degree the favour, of the higher classes, for their European attainments, by their politic habits of insinuation. It was not for their interest that the higher classes should become immediate converts. Whilst these retained their ancient superstition, they could afford the Jesuits a more effectual protection. As soon as the more powerful left their ancient belief, instead of helps they became hindrances to the mission, by the jealousies which they inspired, as the natural heads of a new and rising sect. Thus the influence which the Jesuits had acquired amongst the wise and powerful, and which had forwarded their cause at first, contributed to overthrow it ; for the political dexterity which had gained them friends necessarily raised up to them enemies in a still greater proportion. We cannot, on the whole, regret that the attempts of the Jesuits were not more successful. The experiment of Christianizing Paganism had already been attempted, on a large scale, in tlle Roman empire, under the successors of Constantine ; and the result was, as Mr Coleridge justly expresses it, “ Paganized Christianity.” The success of the Jesuits in China would have ended in attaching a new load of Pagan opinions and observances to that degenerate form of Christianity which was already labouring under an intolerable burden of them.
The Dutch, the lowest in character perhaps of Protestant missions, appeared to have that measure of success which they aimed at. Numbers, under their routine of superficial teaching, assumed the outward form of Christianity, which was all that could reasonably have been expected from their efforts. In many later instances the success has
been beyond the means employed. The distinguished abilities of Dr Carey succeeded beyond all reasonable expectation in the translation of the Scriptures into the languages of the East. The education conferred by the Se-rampore missionaries, by means of the circle of schools under their superintendence, was superior in kind to the education given to European children in the same condition in life, and was more favourably received by the natives, though there was a natural want of perseverance on their part, in availing themselves of the benefit to the utmost.
It is more difficult to judge both with respect to the number of converts and the influence which Christianity exercises over their lives. Neither at home nor abroad, at this present moment, have we reason to suppose that Christianity is enjoying a season of spiritual prosperity. It is rather a time of outward progression than of internal renovation ; and a review of what has been done, both here and in distant countries, may more wisely lead us to place our trust in the Divine arm, which will never desert his own cause, than to form any very lofty and exaggerated notions of our present acquisitions. In some instances we have the encouragement to perceive that the success is far beyond the means. Amiable as the character was, and great as were the talents, of Henry Martyn, they are not sufficient to account for the striking and lasting impression which he produced on the Persians ; and his short residence in Persia produced more fruit than a long life might have done, even with many prosperous circumstances attending it. Those who are last and least upon the missionary field have yet made a beginning ; they have got what Archimedes required in order to move the world, a place where to stand and to erect their moral machinery, some influence over the native mind, and increased facilities for introducing new improvements and additional labourers from Europe.
Success in general will be proportioned to the means employed, and the efficacy of the means will depend upon the method of using them. The first efforts in all undertakings must be expected to be merely tentative. Resources are few, and there is a want of experience, in order to employ the scanty means to the uttermost. What was defective in the commencement is often unnecessarily prolonged, from the dislike of change ; and the very proposal of improvements often appears to imply the censure of previous mismanagement.
In most instances it is the governed who force improvements uj)on their governors ; but in religious enterprises the contributors are too well satisfied with having paid their subscriptions, to give themselves any farther trouble or thought as to the mode in which these contributions are expended. Yet on no subject is thought more required. The first requisite to lasting success is to act upon a system, and to be provided with a plan. Circumstances must modify that plan ; but they who act upon a large scale, and through a considerable tract of time, will at last modify circumstances to their own purposes, and ultimately turn what might seem hindrances into helps.
The first object is to understand the nature of the country and of the people on whom a missionary society is intended to operate. The Americans afford excellent examples of missionary pioneers, previously exploring the country in which they intend to settle ; weighing the advantages and the obstacles which present themselves, exhibiting a rare union of prudence and determination, and, whilst strictly acting up to their own principles, succeeding, at least for a time, in conciliating the minds of others ; though it is not to be expected that this transient favour can last long, for it must be dissipated by the first success on the part of the foreign missionaries. These missionary travels are of double service, creating and deepening an interest at home, which is the true way to enlarge the resources of missionary operations, and at the same time discovering how these resources are to be best economized, by preventing fruitless expenditure, and by pointing out and discovering the true points of attack by which the country to be entered is assailable. Those, however, who have done such service as cxplorers, should continue their good offices as superintendents ; and in many cases there might be an advantage in separating between the council and the executive, between those who laid down the plan and were watching the progress of its being carried into , execution, and those who were filling up the outline, and engaged in the details. Many reports and evil surmises will arise against missionaries, which, being engaged in more important occupations, they little hear of and less heed, and which, even if they were desirous to do so, they could ill ward off ; but these might easily be removed by one w ho was friendly to the mission, and yet not a party implicated in each of its transactions.
If a physician in Mahommedan countries should make the first survey, and propose the original plan, by his influence with the governors he would obtain a more favourable opening for a missionary enterprise, and then watch over its prosperity, without being identified with all its proceedings. He would also have greater facilities, by the access which his profession gives him, both to governors and families of influence, to secure and extend favour and assistance from the ruling pow ers, and to remove the more speedily any obstacles or stumbling-blocks that might be cast in the way. The employment of physicians as missionaries, which has only very lately and very partially been practised, has been attended, on the limited scale on which it has been tried, with yet happier results than could reasonably have been anticipated. It has opened a new fountain ofhumanity in the hard and selfish breasts of distant nations, to see the strange spectacle of a man, in imitation of his Saviour, “ going about doing good,” and healing the sick. Those who are insensible to the diseases of the mind, feel with sufficient acuteness the sufferings of their bodies; and though missionaries may complain of the want of listeners, a missionary-physician has no reason to complain of the want of patients ; nor has he reason to lament the want of success in treating the cases that are submitted to him. The healing art transported to a distance appears to assume new powers ; and the reason is plain. Here medicine has to contend with inveterate debility, and can only hope, by the most successful treatment, to prolong a sickly existence. There the more rigorous life has already swept away those who were not possessed of the stamina of a vigorous constitution, and the physician has chiefly to attend to the cases where nature is ready to second his efforts, where disease is not inveterate, but accidental ; not to mention, that our usual remedies come to distant lands with the advantage of new discoveries, and seem to resume the efficacy which they possessed when first invented, and before the body, like that of Mithridates, seasoned to drugs, and therefore blunted to their operation, had lost the sensibility which it possessed on their first and hitherto untried exhibition. Novelty also greatly augments the power of not the least potent of medicines, faith and hope.
What interest would the residence of an intelligent physician possess at Jerusalem ; of one who was a physician indeed in the largest sense of the term, and wise in the knowledge of nature ? We need such a commentator even for the Scriptures, an intelligent and resident spectator, to view and to record again the same natural appearances w, hich were viewed by the sacred writers of old, that we may stand again in their position, see, anew the same objects, and affix the same significance to their terms. W’hat a benefactor he might be to the weary and superstitious pilgrims from distant lands, who might return home with prolonged life, and carrying with them the words of that
life which will never end. The Moslems despise the Franks, but not the Frank physician. The caliphs themselves owed much of their fame and their intelligence to the Nazarene doctors, who communicated to them not only the art of healing, but much of the various knowledge of the Greeks. A Frank traveller is suspected ; he is certainly seeking for hidden treasure. But a physician proceeding on the same path is reverenced ; he is a benefactor, not a spoiler ; he is culling simples to form some potent elixir ; he has adopted the nobler part of the wonder-working art, not the secret of finding or making gold, but the mystery of prolonging life.
As the physician enables the missionary to gain immediate access to the hearts both of the young and the old, so the teacher, with the approbation of many who are unaware of the changes which he must introduce, is enabled to cut off the sources of error, and to implant the seeds of truth. Why is it that the present generation of idolaters still believe in their monstrous idols ? It is because they have been educated to do so. All these superstitions are attached to the past, and have no other root in the present than what custom and education give them. They already exhibit the symptoms of decay, even with the Pagan education in their favour. An education founded on facts, even though it were not grounded on Christian principles, would unfasten the slight and relaxing hold which they yet retain over the minds of the multitude, and would speedily accelerate their destruction. It is a great improvement which is beginning to be introduced into education, the uniting the acquisition of reading and writing with the practice of some of the manual arts. By this no time is lost, and health is promoted.
The first of all the arts, and applicable to every condition of society, is the cultivation of the ground. How much would a few simple rules and improved practices alter the external comforts of the tribes amongst whom missionaries are labouring, whilst the improvement of the mind would proceed more rapidly along with the amelioration of their outward condition, and the more abundant supply of their temporal wants. The teacher also who is endeavouring to infuse common elementary knowledge into the minds of the young, has the best practice for obtaining that plainness of speech and simplicity of illustration, which will convey, in a tongue unused to express them, the truths of the gospel to those who are no longer young, but whose minds are still in the state of infancy, retaining the weakness of childhood without its pliancy.
There is great, hope for the world in this, that an education founded solely upon facts, without reference to opinions, and therefore without open controversy, is calculated to destroy all the roots of error, and, though it cannot change the heart, yet will leave a much wider field for truth than exists at present. The contests between different creeds is in a fair way of being reduced to narrow ground, and to a decisive issue. The only alternative speedily will be between Christianity and no religion ; and, unless belief and hope could be exterminated from the human breast, we need have no doubt as to the general result.
The introducing agriculture, and the other manual arts, into missionary establishments, would remedy one difficulty which frequently presents itself in affording employment and maintenance for new converts, who, in quitting their former creed, are often cut off from society and the means ofexistence, and in this way, without a new opening to enable them to provide for their own living, must become a burden and a discredit to the new society with which they have become connected. The amelioration of the soil around missionary stations, and improved methods of culture, would be attended with manifold advantages ; it would give a visible reply to the objections of the most sceptical, of what use are missionaries ? It would afford food and employment to those who are in temporary want of both, till new outlets could be found for the new converts, either from the ceasing of persecution against them, or from placing them in situations where their recent change does not excite the same enmity ; and it would form a little colony where Christian habits and Christian maxims prevailed, a moral oasis in the midst of the heathen wilderness. How great a change,
in 
many missionary stations, would even an acquaintance with the best method of irrigation produce ? There is sunshine to ripen any produce ; all that is required is moisture, and the rock is as ready at the hand of art as at the rod of the prophet, to yield its secret treasure of waters, and to spread as it flows over the sand a profusion of fruits and flowers. It was ow’ing to this art that the Arab dominion in Spain owed much of its prosperity and glory. The children of the desert, in their owr n burning regions, had been taught the economy of water ; the same skill which produced a wretched garden in the Sahara, created a paradise in Spain ; and to directing the Streamswhich were descending from the snows of the Alpuxaras, we owe these magic wonders which Madame de Stael could never hear of without her pulse beating faster, “ Les orangers du royaume de Grenade, et les citronniers des rois Maures.”
The employment of a few religious artisans, whilst they would tend greatly to the success of a mission, and to its speedier taking root in the soil to which it was transplanted, would, if they were possessed of a missionary spirit, add little to the expenditure. A gardener or practical agriculturist might be expected to do more than maintain himself ; a physician, though so important to the mission, might also, in many instances, detract but little from the funds. These, however, are minor considerations ; for a somewhat liberal expenditure, if judicious, is in the end the wisest economy.
A source both of economy and power is to concentrate the efforts that are made ; it may present a more imposing appearance to have a number of stations dotted about in all parts of the world ; but we have the example of the apostles, that the first object is to establish a church, to collect a number of believers, and to form them into a new centre, whence the truth may emanate in every direction around. In war nothing is so frequently fruitless as a victory, and it is the highest art of a commander to improve it to the utmost. In missionary efforts, success might be almost as fruitless, if advantage were not taken of it to the fullest extent, by bringing up additional resources, and completely occupying the ground that was gained. The fate of a battle often depends upon the reserve. One or two additional labourers on the missionary field might often terminate a long series of disappointments by a prosperous result. A little missionary colony would at once transplant Christianity into the region proposed to be ultimately occupied, and the children of the agriculturist or the artisan might form the missionaries of future years, inured to the climate, habituated to the mode of life and thought, and speaking the language with native facility. When a single missionary goes amongst a multitude of heathen, he has the whole tide of sympathy against the sentiments which he endeavours to introduce ; the case is reversed when the heathen youth is brought to the missionary settlement, and placed under the social influence of Christianity and civilization. A small missionary colony would at once commence a Christian church ; it would immediately become sacred ground, “ a place where prayer is wont to be made,” and where He who hears and answers prayer would interfere on their behalf, and would abundantly grant their requests.
The missionaries are availing themselves, with much intelligence and activity, of that instrument which is changing
tlle
world, the press. The Reformation was occasioned by tracts ; and all other changes since, both religious and political, have been indebted to those swift and efficacious messengers, which, like the winged Hermes of the ancients,
glide without impediment over land and sea. The operations of the Tract Society are one of the wonders of our times. Their little works are showered down upon every shore, if not quite as eloquent as the words of Ulysses, yet, like his, they fall thick as the winter snows, and no barrier has yet been found that can effectually repress the effect of these missiles. There is no tongue or speech in which their voices are not heard, nor does there seem any limit to their operations, except that which circumscribes all human endeavours, the “ alte terminus hærens,” the limitation of funds.
Another great instrument for diffusing civilization and Christianity, is the spread of the English tongue. It is to be regretted that many natives are more anxious to Iearn English than the missionaries are to teach them, from the fear, it appears, by some missionary accounts, that these natives, when instructed, would only employ their knowledge of English in the pursuit of gain. It might probably so happen in several instances at first ; but the demand for those who have a superficial acquaintance with English is not unlimited, the market would soon be supplied, and the premium lowered. Then the advantages of teaching English would remain when the disadvantages were removed. The Romans understood the art of governing rather better than the English, and met the desire of the provincials to bc instructed in the Roman tongue. With them it might be matter of amusement, not of scorn or rejection, that even remote barbarians had some aspirations after Italian refinement or Grecian eloquence :—
De conducendo rhetore jam loquitur Thule.
Still remoter regions from Rome than the farthest Thule are now desirous of an acquaintance with English, and, if the English were wise, would be encouraged in this attainment, for with the spread of their language they would extend their glory and their commerce.
The true end of missionary societies, it must never be lost sight of, is to raise up native teachers and preachers. Until this point be gained, the foreign missionaries must address the natives “ with stammering lips, and another tongue ;” for though the words may be native, the idiom is sure to be foreign ; and the missionaries will certainly continue to think in English, even when they are pronouncing the words of another language. This plain and obvious truth does not seem to have hitherto been sufficiently considered. Yet to perceive the difficulty, we have only to imagine a number of French apostles endeavouring, in broken English, to recall a heathen multitude of Britons to a sense of solemnity, and trying to infuse into their minds, through so distorting a medium, some knowledge of the truths of the Gospel. The actual engagement of a certain number of native teachers may serve indeed as an excuse, but not as a complete justification, for this important and obvious principle not having been carried more fully into effect.
The employment of well-educated native preachers supposes, in some degree, the erection of higher schools and colleges, and therefore presents the difficulty of finding sufficient funds and suitable teachers. But the employment of native teachers is itself a source of economy, tending to diminish the number, and of course the expenditure, of European labourers, whilst it would increase the efficiency of those who are actually sent. And the knowledge to be taught must in the first place be elementary, and suitable teachers for the elements might readily be found. The Kirk of Scotland affords a good example of scholastic instruction ; the Church of England possesses a college on a large and liberal scale ; and the plan of Serampore was marked by great ingenuity and intelligence. What is desirable is, that these beginnings should be pursued and extended; and that other denominations should make equal efforts for training up a body of native missionaries, possessed of the acquirements of Europe, and having greater opportunities than Europeans can possibly obtain, of familiar intercourse and ready sympathy amongst their own countrymen.
But if missionary societies do not raise up native teachers in abundance, without any one’s instruction or assistance native heretics will rise up of themselves. Light and darkness are intermingling together, and new and foreign opinions, from casual intercourse with Europeans, will combine with old prejudices, and produce a new set of errors. Thus Gnosticism arose from the first dawn of Christianity in the East ; and thus Manes united the Persian doctrine with the true principles and the purer tenets of Revelation. Thus the Sikhs in India have remodelled the opinions of the Hindus, in part, upon the more warlike creed of their Moslem conquerors, and have adopted the half of the Moslem religion, which consists of the Koran and the sword, rejecting the Koran, but worshipping the “ All-Steel.” The overflow of the English race from either side of the Atlantic w, ould augment the confusion and destruction of the ancient systems, alike by their profligacy or their piety; even the outcasts, throwing contempt upon the idols, prepare the wr ay for the reception of a new system of belief ; for in many instances the native savages only wait for an example of their idols being despised with impunity, to cast them aside, and admit the superiority of that Power which has instructed the white strangers in so many arts of which they themselves are ignorant. The enterprise and rivalry of Europeans naturally tend to embroil the most distant nations in their quarrels, and shake the thrones of the native princes, already crumbling from their antiquity. Every new invention shortens the period which will make the whole world European ; and, considering only human means, steam alone has brought us a hundred years nearer to the conversion of the world.
The advantages of missions are obvious, both to those who send missionaries and to those who receive them. The contributors to missions have the double advantage both of saving and of giving. Every step of progress that the world has made firom the lowest scale of barbarism, is by saving ; by preferring the future to the present ; by making the acquisitions of the day
go
farther than the day itself; and by rendering the surplus of the gain of the former generation a bequest to the generation which is to succeed it. But this noble attainment often proceeds from an unworthy cause. The love of money often injures the individual as much as it benefits his species. In giving to missionary societies, the saving is not only profitable, but the motive is generous and ennobling. It solves the question of Who is our neighbour, in the manner pointed out by the Saviour, and brings into a nearness of affection those who are distant in place. It restores the dormant affinity of our common species, and embraces the whole family of man in a new and still more elevated brotherhood. Some objects chiefly warm the affections, and others enlighten the understanding ; but the cause of missions at once accomplishes both. The labourer who, from his hard earnings, spares a portion for the greater spiritual need of that distant brother whom he never saw, not only feels his heart warmed towards him whom he intends to benefit, but listens with an interest, unfelt before, to all the information he may receive concerning him. Curiosity becomes a loftier feeling, which exists after novelty is ended ; and the head and the heart are alike actively employed in devising means to ameliorate the most distant tribes of the family of man, and in affording the resources which are to carry these plans into execution. If missionary efforts were attended with no other advantages, the benefits they confer upon the contributors were well w, orth all the sums that have been expended upon them. But they are “ twice blessed.” Every
step abroad is also an advantage, even if the mission should proceed no farther. The mere employment of a physician, the diseases that he removes, and the gratitude that he excites, were sufficient reward for any expense attending his mission. Every step in education well recompenses the trouble and expenditure attending it. Every communication of knowledge, even if it should stop short of the highest knowledge, should more than repay a benevolent man for any little sacrifices he might have made in affording light to others. But these are merely the commencements. With common prudence, there is no danger that the stream of beneficence, after a short and rapid course, should be swallowed up in the sands. We may rather anticipate that its progress will be like the beautiful description of the son of Sirach.
I also came forth as a canal from a river,
And as a conduit flowing into a paradise.
I said, I will water my garden,
And I will abundantly moisten my border :
And, Io ! my canal became a river,
And my river became a sea.
God has raised Britain to a pitch of power and affluence unexampled in the history of mankind. Great as its prosperity apparently is, it is still greater than it seems ; for its immense resources have never been fully developed. Those who are blessed are intended to be made a blessing. We were raised to the height of our present condition, not to abuse the gifts of Providence in luxury, but to disseminate the distinguished mercies which have been committed to us in trust, as far as the winds and the waves can waft the messengers of benevolence from our shores.    (b. g.)
REMBRANDT Van Rhin, a Flemish painter and engraver of great eminence, was born in 1606, in a mill upon the banks of the Rhine, whence he derived his name of
Van Rhin.
This master was born with a creative genius, which never attained to perfection. It was said of him, that he would have invented painting, if he had not found it already discovered. Without study, without the assistance of any master, by his own instinct alone, he formed rules, and a certain practical method for colouring ; and the mixture produced the designed effect. Nature is not set off to the greatest advantage in his pictures ; but there is such a striking truth and simplicity in them, that his heads, particularly his portraits, seem animated, and rising from the canvass. He was fond of strong contrasts of light and of shadow. The light entered into his working-room only by a hole, in the manner of a camera obscura, by which he judged with greater certainty of his productions. This artist considered painting like the stage, where the characters do not strike unless they are exaggerated. He did not pursue the method of the Flemish painters, that of finishing his pieces. He sometimes gave his light such thick touches, that it seemed more like modelling than painting. A head of his has been shown, the nose of which was as thick of paint as that which he copied from nature. He was told one day, that by his peculiar method of employing colours, his pieces appeared rugged and uneven ; but he replied that he was a painter, and not a dyer. He took a pleasure in dressing his figures in an extraordinary manner; and with this view he had collected a great number of eastern caps, with ancient armour and drapery long since out of fashion. When he was advised to consult antiquity in order to attain a better taste in drawing, in which he was usually heavy and uneven, he took his counsellor to the closet where these old vestments were deposited, saying, by way of derision, that these were his antiques.
Rembrandt, like most men of genius, had many caprices. Being one day at work, painting a whole family in a single picture, word was brought him that his monkey had died ; and he was so affected by the loss of this animal, that, without paying any attention to the persons who were sitting for their pictures, he painted the monkey upon the same canvass. This whim could not fail to displease those for whom the piece was designed ; but he wτ ould not efface it, choosing rather to lose the sale of his picture than to act like a rational being.
This freak will appear the more extraordinary in Rembrandt, when it is considered that he was extremely avaricious, a vice which daily grew upon him. He practised various stratagems to sell his prints at a high price. The public were very desirous of purchasing them, and not without reason. In his prints the same taste prevails as in his pictures ; they are rough and irregular, but picturesque. To heighten the value of his prints, and increase their price, he made his son sell them as if he had purloined them from his father ; others he exposed at public sales, and went thither in disguise in order to bid for them ; sometimes he even gave out that he was going to leave Holland and to settle in another country. These stratagems were successful, and he got his own price for his prints. At other times he would print his plates half finished, and expose them to sale ; after which he would finish them, and then they became fresh plates. When any of them wanted retouching, he made some alterations ; which promoted the sale of his prints a third time, though they differed but little from the first impressions.
His pupils, who were not ignorant of his avarice, one day painted some pieces of money upon cards ; which Rembrandt no sooner saw than he was going to take them up. He was not angry at the pleasantry ; but it had no effect in checking his avarice. He died in 1674.
REMBANG, a Dutch residency on the north-east coast of Java, which produces salt and timber for ship-building. Long. 111. 15. E. Lat. 6.40. S.
REMEMBRANCE is when the idea of something formerly known recurs again to the mind without the operation ofa similar object on the external sensory.
REMEMBRANCERS, anciently called clerks of the remembrance, certain officers in the exchequer, three of whom are distinguished by the names of the King’s Remembrancer, the Lord Treasurer’s Remembrancer, and the Remembrancer of the First Fruits.
REMINISCENCE, that power of the human mind by which it recollects itself, or calls again into its remembrance such ideas or notions as it had really forgotten. In this it differs from memory, which is a treasuring up of things in tlle mind, and keeping them there, without forgetting them.
REMISSION, in
Physics,
the abatement of the power or efficacy of any quality ; in opposition to the increase of the same, which is called
intension.
REMONSTRANTS, in
Ecclesiastical History,
a title which was given to the Arminians in consequence of the Remonstrance made by them in the year 1610, to the states of Holland, against the sentence of the synod of Dordrect, which pronounced them heretics. The chief leaders of the Remonstrants were Episcopius and Grotius; and their principles were first openly countenanced in England by Archbishop Laud. In opposition to the representation or remonstrance of the Arminians, the Dutch Calvinists presented an address, which was called a counter-remonstrance ; and hence they obtained the denomination of Counter-Remonstrants. A great deal of keen controversy was agitated in this affair by these rival sects.
REMORSE, in its worse sense, signifies that pain or anguish which one feels after having committed some wicked action. It also means tenderness, pity, or sympathetic sor-
row ; but it is most generally used in a bad sense, and is applied to persons who feel compunction for some great crime, as murder, and the like. Murders which have been committed with the utmost circumspection and secrecy, and the authors of which could never be discovered by any human investigation, have frequently been disclosed by the remorse and confession of the perpetrators, and that, too, many years afterwards.
REMPHAN, an idol or god whom St Stephen says the Israelites worshipped in the wilderness as they passed from Egypt to the Land of Promise. “ Yea, ye took up thc tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god
Remphan ; 
figures which ye made to worship them.” That the martyr here quotes the following words of the prophet Amos, all commentators are agreed : “ Ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch, and
Chiun
your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves.” But if this coincidence between the Christian preacher and the Jewish prophet be admitted, it follows that
Chiun
and
Remphan 
are two names of one and the same deity. This indeed is further evident from the Septuagint translators having substituted in their version the word P
αιφαν
,
instead of
Chiun, 
which we read in the Hebrew and English Bibles. But the question which still remains to be answered is, What god was worshipped by the name of
Remphan, Raiphan, 
or
Chiun ?
That
Chiun
or
Remphan
was an Egyptian divinity, cannot be questioned ; for at the era of the Exodus the Hebrew's must have been strangers to the idolatrous worship of all other nations ; nor are they ever accused of any other than Egyptian idolatries during their forty years’ wanderings in the wilderness, till towards the end of that period, when they became infected by the Moabites with the worship of
Baal-peor.
That
Moloch, Molek, Melek,
or
Mil-cοm,
in its original acceptation, denotes a king or chief, is known to every oriental scholar ; and therefore, when it is used as the name of a god, it undoubtedly signifies the
Sun, 
and is the same divinity with the Egyptian
Ra, Ré,
or
Phre. 
Reasoning in this way, many critics, and we believe Selden amongst the number, have concluded that
Chiun,
and of course
Remphan,
is the planet Saturn ; because
Chiun
is written
Ciun, Cevan, Ceuan, Chevvin,
all of which are modern oriental names of that planet.
But against this hypothesis insurmountable objections present themselves. It is universally allowed that the first objects of idolatrous worship were the Sun and Moon, considered as the king and queen of heaven. The fixed stars, indeed, and the planets, were afterwards gradually admitted into the Pagan Pantheon ; but we may be sure that these would be first associated with the two prime luminaries which most resembled them in brightness, and were supposed to be most benignant to man. The planet Saturn, however, appears to the naked eye with so feeble a lustre, that, in the infancy of astronomy, it could not make such an impression on the mind as to excite that admiration which we must conceive to have always preceded planetary worship. It is to be observed, too, that by the Pagan writers of antiquity Saturn is constantly represented as a star of baleful influence. He is termed the
leaden planet ;
the 
planet of malevolent aspect ;
the
dismal,
the
inhuman star. 
That the Egyptians, at so early a period as that under consideration, should have adored as one of their greatest gods a planet obscure in its appearance, distant in its situation, and baleful in its influence, is wholly incredible.
There is another star, however, which they might naturally adore, and which we know they actually did worship, as one of their most beneficent gods, at a very early period. This is the
άσrgαxuwv
or
ασειgιoς
of the Greeks, the
canis
or
stella canicularis
of the Romans, and the
dog-star
of modern Europe. By the Egyptians it was called
Sothis
or
Soth,
which signifies safety, beneficence, fecundity ; and it received this name because, making its appearance in the heavens at the very time when the Nile overflowed the country, it was supposed to regulate the inundation. On this account, Plutarch tells us, they believed the soul of their illustrious benefactress Isis to have transmigrated into the star Sothis, which they therefore worshipped as the divinity which rendered their country fruitful. It made its appearance, too, on the first day of the month called
Thoth,@@
1
 
which was the beginning of the Egyptian year, and as such celebrated with feasting and festivity ; and being by far the brightest star in the heavens, Horus Apollo informs us that it was considered as sovereign over the rest. A combination of so many important circumstances might have induced a people less superstitious than the Egyptians to pay divine homage to that glorious luminary, which was confounded with Isis, who had been long regarded with the highest veneration ; and as Isis was the wife and sister of Osiris, and always associated with him, the star of Isis or Remphan was naturally associated with Moloch, the same with Osiris.
But it will be asked, how the star which by the Egyptians was called Soth or Sothis came to be worshipped by the Hebrews under the appellation of
Chiun
or
Remphan. 
This is a pertinent question, and we shall endeavour to answer it.
Every one knows that the pronunciation of oriental w0rd3 is very uncertain ; and that as the vowels were often omitted in writing, it is of very little importance to the meaning how they be supplied, provided we retain the radical consonants. The word
Chiun
may with equal propriety be written
Kiun, Kion,
or even
Kyon,
the Hebrew
jod
being convertible into the Greek
v
or the Roman
y ;
but the words 
Cane, Chan, Kan,
or
Khan,
which are often diversified into
Khen, Kyn, Cohen, Cahan,
signifying
head, chief, prince, 
or
king,
are diffused throughout a great part of Asia and Europe. In the Chinese language
Quin,
which signifies a 
king,
is so similar to the word
Chiun
or
Khiun
under consideration, that no etymologist will hesitate to pronounce them of the same origin and import. The word
Kan
or 
Khan
is universally known to be an honorary title in Tar-tary ; and
Kaian
or
Kain,
which is manifestly a cognate of the word
Chiun
or
Kiun,
is, in the Pahlavi, or old Persian language, the epithet applied to the dynasty of princes which succeeded Cyrus the Great Amongst the Scythians or ancient Tartars,
Ghiun
signifies the Sun and likewise the day ; and
Kung, Kinung, Kun,
runs through all the dialects of the Gothic tongue, everywhere denoting a chief or sovereign. In the Syrian dialect,
Kon
signifies a prince ; and hence the Almighty is styled (Gen. xiv. 19) 
Konah,
which is translated
possessor,
but might, with perhaps more propriety, have been rendered sovereign of heaven and earth. In the Hebrew, the word
Kahan
or
Kahen, 
which is the same with
Khan
or
Kan,
signifies either a priest or a prince ; and in ancient Egypt
Kon
was the name of the first Hercules, or the Sun. Hence the same word in composition denotes greatness, as
Can-obus,
the great serpent ;
Can-athοth,
the great
Thoth
or Mercury ; 
Can-osiris,
the great
Osiris.
From this deduction we may conclude that the word, which is found in so many tongues, and always denotes chief, prince, or sovereign, is the very word
Chiun
which the Egyptians and Hebrews applied to Sothis, as being, in their conceptions, the chief or sovereign of all the stars. This will appear still more probable, when we have ascertained the import of the wf ord
Remphan,
or, as the Seventy-two have it,
Raiphan.
@@@1 This was the case at a very remote period ; but it is otherwise at present, owing to the precession of the Equinoxes.
Phan,
the latter part of this word, is unquestionably the same with
Pan,
the most ancient of the Egyptian gods. It , is likewise a cognate of the Hebrew Phanah,
conspexit, spectavit, vidit ;
and the radical word seems to be Phah, or Phthah, which signifies sometimes the countenance, and sometimes light. Hence
Phaethon,
which is compounded of
pha,
light ;
eût
or esA, fire ; and
on,
strength ; came to be one of the names of the Sun.
Rai,
which we commonly write
Rajah,
has long signified, amongst the Indians, a subordinate prince ; and we know that between India and Egypt there was a very early intercourse.
Raiphan,
therefore, may be either the
royal light
or the
bright prince, 
subordinate to Osiris ; and in either sense it was a very proper epithet of Sothis in the Egyptian !calendar. The word 
Rem
or
Rom,
again, for it is sometimes written Remphan, and sometimes Roropha, is no other than the Hebrew n∏, 
Rum,
high or exalted. Hence Remphan is the
high
or
exalted light,
which Sothis certainly was. (o. o. o. o.)
REMUS, the brother of Romulus, was exposed, together with his brother, by the cruelty of his grandfather. In the contest which happened between the two brothers about building a city, Romulus obtained the preference ; and Remus, for ridiculing the rising walls, was put to death by his brother’s orders, or by Romulus himself. After this murder the Romans were afflicted with a plague ; upon which the oracle was consulted, and the manes of Remus were appeased by the institution of the Remuria.
REMY, Sτ, a city of France, in the department of the Mouths of the Rhone, and arrondissement of Arles. It stands on a fruitful plain, and is celebrated for the marble found near it, as well as for valuable Roman antiquities, especially a triumphal arch, and a lofty mausoleum which is still in good preservation. The city contains 930 houses, with 6200 inhabitants, who manufacture serges and other cloths.
RENAPOOR, a town of Hindustan, in the Nizam’s territories, and province of Aurungabad, seventy-one miles north-west from Beeder. Long. 76. 55. E. Lat. 10. 20. N.
RENDSBURG, a city of the Danish dominions, in Holstein. It is built on the river Eider, by which it is divided into the old and the new town. It is strongly fortified, being the bulwark of Denmark towards Germany. The great canal ends at this place. It is a town of considerable trade, especially of breweries and distilleries ; and here is the chief government military arsenal. It contains 545 houses, and 7572 inhabitants. Long. 9. 34. E. Lat. 54. 18. N.
RENFREW, the chief town of a shire or county of the same name, in Scotland, situated on the south bank of the river Clyde, about six miles below' Glasgow, and three northeast of Paisley. It wr as made a burgh by David L, who began to reign in 1124, and is undoubtedly the most ancient town in Renfrewshire. In 1396 Robert III. raised it to the rank of a royal burgh, and it is the only place in the county which enjoys that distinction. The name is apparently derived from 
rhyη
in the British, or
rinn
in the Gaelic, both meaning a point of land ; and/rew or
frau,
in the British, meaning a flow of water. This forms an apt description, the town being situated on a point of land near the conflux of the rivers Clyde and Cart. Assuming that the name
Renfrew
was anciently applied to the site of the burgh, it is easy to understand how it would be given to the burgh itself, and afterwards be extended first to the barony, and then to the sherift'dom.
Renfrew possesses considerable historical interest. Here Somerled, Lord of the Isles, who rose in rebellion against Malcolm IV., was defeated and slain in 1164. Thefamily of Stewart had their common residence at this place before they were called to the throne. Even after that event Robert II., and probably also some of his successors, occasionally resided here. The mansion of the Stew arts no longer exists j but its site is still called “ Castlehill,” and near it is
“ the King’s Meadow.” In former times the waters of the Clyde separated into two branches at Renfrew, and formed an insular piece of ground, or
inch,
on which there stood another ancient edifice, called “ the Inch Castle.”
This town had once a little foreign trade. In a charter granted by James VI., in tlle year 1614, it is described as the principal port on thc Clyde. A century later, its chief traffic was with Ireland. At present, some vessels in the inland trade load and unload at the harbour. About fifty years ago, a navigable canal was formed between tlle town and the river ; and at the mouth of this canal a commodious quay was built in 1835, at an expense of about L.800. Some salmon-fishings on the Clyde have long belonged to the burgh. The principal occupation of the inhabitants is hand-loom weaving, in which 561 persons were employed in the year 1836. That Renfrew has but little participated in the prosperity which commerce and manufactures have diffused all around, is evident from the fact, that the population of the parish, which in 1801 had amounted to 2031, had in 1831 increased to only 2833. It contains a constituency of ninety-five qualified voters, and is joined with Ruther-glen, Dumbarton, Kilmarnock, and Port-Glasgow, in sending a member to parliament.
RENFREWSHIRE, a county in Scotland, lying between 55. 40. 40. and 55. 58.10. north latitude, and 4.15. and 4. 52. 30. west longitude, is bounded on the east by Lanarkshire, on the south by Ayrshire, and on the north and west by the river and frith of Clyde, which separate it from the shires of Dumbarton and Argyle, excepting a section of about 1300 imperial acres, which is situated on the north bank of the Clyde, opposite the town of Renfrew. Its greatest length is thirty-one miles and a half, and its greatest breadth thirteen miles and a fourth. Its area is 241 square miles, or 154,240 acres, of which about 100,000 are cultivated, 20,000 uncultivated, and 34,240 unprofitable. Notwithstanding the small extent of this shire, its manufactures and commerce render it one of the most important in Scotland.
At the epoch of the Roman invasion, in the first century of the Christian era, this part of Scotland was inhabited by a Celtic tribe, called by the invaders the E>amnii. After the withdrawal of the Romans, it was comprehended in the British kingdom of Stratliclyde.
The district which now forms the county of Renfrew, at least the greater part of it, was denominated, from one of its rivers, Strathgryfe, the valley of the Gryfe, and at one time formed part of the shire of Lanark or Clydesdale. It was the chief patrimony of the great stewards of Scotland, to whom it was granted by the sovereign in the twelfth century. Afterwards it was called the barony of Renfrew, from the burgh of that name, where the stewards long had their principal residence. In 1404, thirty-three years after the accession of the house of Stewart to the Scottish throne, King Robert III. granted this barony, and the other portions of the estates of the steward, to his son and heir James; since which time the eldest son of the sovereign has, besides his other titles, borne that of “ Baron of Renfrew.” Soon afterwards this barony was erected into a distinct sheriffdom, the courts of which were held at Renfrew till the year 1705, when they were, for convenience sake, removed to Paisley. In 1815 the county was formed into two wards, termed the Upper and the Lower, with a sheriff-substitute for each, Paisley and Greenock being the seats of their respective courts.
Renfrewshire comprehends twenty-one parishes, besides small portions of those of Beith and Dunlop in Ayrshire, and Govan in Lanarkshire. Two of the parishes, Eagle-sham and Cathcart, belong to the presbytery of Glasgow ; the other nineteen composed the presbytery of Paisley for a long time prior to the year 1834, when two presbyteries w, ere formed ; that of Paisley, consisting of twelve of these nineteen parishes ; and that of Greenock, consisting of the
other seven, with the addition of Cumbraes in Buteshire, and Largs in Ayrshire, both of which parishes formerly belonged to the presbytery of Irvine. In the above enumeration of parishes, those which are so
quoad sacra
only have not been taken into account.
About two thirds of this county, comprehending the western and southern sides, are hilly, the medium elevation being from 500 to 600 feet. Mistylaw, on the west, which is about 1240 feet above the level of the sea, has been represented as the highest hill in the county ; but it is now ascertained that a neighbouring height, called the Hill of Staik, is entitled to that distinction, being a few feet higher. This last was one of the points of observation in the general trigonometrical survey of the kingdom. Balagiech and Dun-wan are the highest hills on the south-east side, being about 1000 feet above the sea-level. The hilly district is in general kept in pasture, for which it is better adapted, by the nature of its surface, than for tillage ; though, as it has a free light soil, which readily absorbs water, it is seldom injured by moisture. The cultivated land, which forms the gently-rising district, lies on the north and north-east, and in the centre of the county on both sides of the Black CarL Of this the greater part consists of low, detached eminences, which swell in endless variety. These being interspersed with copses, and often watered at the bottom by winding streams, present views remarkable for richness and variety. Indeed it will be difficult to point to a more beautiful surface anywhere in Scotland. Much of this tract has a close subsoil of small stones and coarse clay, almost impenetrable to water, though there are here many flat holms of great fertility. It is only between Paisley and the Clyde that the country sinks down into a plain, forming the flat district known by the name of “ the Laighlands.” The length of this beautiful level tract is about six miles, its breadth about three, and its area 12,000 acres. Here the soil is generally a deep rich loam of a dark-brown colour, sometimcs of the nature of what is called “ carse clay ;” and much of it seems to have been formed by the deposition of vegetable mould from the higher grounds. Moss prevails in the first and last divisions, but is not found in the second one, where the soil is pretty uniform.
Like the other western counties of Scotland, Renfrewshire has a moist climate, with frequent rains ; and the prevailing wind is from the south-west. At Largs, a village in Ayrshire, near the western extremity of this county, the yearly quantity of rain in 1809 and 1810 was 38⅔ inches ; at Glasgow, near the eastern extremity, for thirty years, from 1761 to 1790, it was 29∙65 inches.
Besides the Clyde, which, as has been already mentioned, flows along the northern and western boundaries of this county, the principal rivers are the White Cart, the Black Cart, and the Gryfe. The White Cart, which rises in Lanarkshire, enters Renfrewshire from the south, and pursues a winding course, first westerly towards Paisley, through which it passes, and then northerly towards the Clyde. It is joined at Inchinnan Bridge by the Black Cart, which had previously received the waters of the Gryfe at Walkinshaw, above Barnsford Bridge ; and these united streams, which contain nine tenths of the water of the county, fall into the Clyde about three miles below Paisley. By means of a short canal, which was cut to avoid the shallows at Inchinnan Bridge in 1786, the White Cart is navigable up to Paisley. Other improvements upon this river are in progress. Like some other Scottish streams, it was once famous for the pearls which were found in its bed, but these have disappeared since the beginning of the eighteenth century. The
Black Cart rises from Loch Winnoch, or, as it is usually called, from an adjoining estate, Castle-Semple Loch, a lake in the south-western extremity of the county. The Gryfe rises in the west, amongst the high lands of the parish of Greenock. All these streams, and several others of smaller size, independently of their importance to agriculture, are, in almost every part of their course, applied by the industrious and ingenious inhabitants to the various purposes of manufactures. A ready supply of water is secured by means of reservoirs, some of which are of the size and appearance of considerable lakes ; or by enlarging the natural lakes themselves, of which there are many. These streams and lakes contain the kinds of fish that are common in this quarter of the country.
Two railways, which will traverse the county, are now (March 1839) in course of being formed. Commencing at Glasgow, they will have a common line to Paisley, from which the one will lead north-westwards to Greenock, and the Otherwestwardstoseveralplacesin Ayrshire. Theseways oftransport must prove Ofincalculable value to the trade and commerce of the county. It is expected that they will be opened in 1840. The Paisley and Renfrew railway, and the canal from Glasgow to Johnston, have been noticed in the account of Paisley.
The minerals of Renfrewshire are of great importance, and constitute the main source of its manufactures and commerce ; but we can only advert to them very generally. Coal, limestone, and sandstone, are wrought at Neilston, one of the parishes of the hilly district ; and both coal and lime have been found in the flat district near Renfrew ; but it is in the middle division that mines are wrought to the greatest extent. Of coal there are generally about twelve different works carried on, of which the most extensive and valuable are at Polmadie, on the north-east boundary ; at Hurlet, three miles south-east from Paisley, where it has been wrought for more than three hundred years ; and at Quarrelton, south-east from Johnston, on the Black Cart, near the centre of the county. The coal at this latter place consists of five contiguous strata ; the thickness of the whole, measured at right angles to their surface, is upwards of fifty feet ; but as in some places the seam forms a considerable angle with the horizon, the thickness of the whole in these places, measured vertically, is about fifteen fathoms. In consequence of this great depth, it is wrought in floors or stories. Limestone abounds in various parts, and is commonly wrought at eight different quarries. Ironstone in beds and balls is found in great profusion. Considerable quantities of pyrites are found in the stratum of coal at Hurlet and Househill, and manufactured into sulphate of iron or green vitriol. Alum is obtained at Hurlet, from the decomposed schistus which forms one of the strata of its coal-mines. Excellent freestone, lying near the surface, is wrought at various places in the middle district. Greenstone, or, as it is provincially called,
whinstone,
exists in immense masses.@@1
The annual value of real property in Renfrewshire, as assessed in 1815, was L.265,534 sterling. The valued rent in 1674 was L.69,172 Scots. This, exclusive of small properties occupied by
feuars,
chiefly as gardens, was, in 1810, divided among 350 proprietors, the estates of eighty-one of whom were above the valuation of L.100 Scots, and only six were above L.2000 Scots. At that time nearly half the valuation belonged to estates held under entail, and by corporations, which were not therefore allowed to be brought to market. Landed property in Renfrewshire underwent great changes during the forty years which preceded 1810,
1
@@@ Much valuable and interesting information on the geology of Renfrewshire will be found in an essay by Mr William Montgomery, younger of Cloak, factor, Castle-Semple, inserted amongst the Frize Essays and Transactions of the Highland and Agricultural Society ofScotland for December 1838, p. 421.
nearly one third part of the whole shire having been sold within that period. There are about thirty seats of noblemen and gentlemen, besides villas belonging to merchants and tradesmen. There are also many remains of ancient structures, which formed the seats of powerful or respectable families. This shire was anciently covered with wood. Even now it is ornamented with many woods and plantations ; and it is in general well enclosed.
As an agricultural district, this does not rank so high as some others in Scotland. Farms are generally small, seldom exceeding 100 acres on the arable land, and 400 or 500 acres on the hills. In 1811 the average rent per English acre was about fifteen shillings, varying from two or three shillings to four or five pounds ; partly owing to situation, but still more to the different degrees of the natural fertility of the soil. The usual period of leases here, as in other parts of Scotland, is nineteen years ; but many are now shorter. The mode of farming is such as every year to leave more than a half of the arable land in grass, on which the stock chiefly kept is cows, the most part of whose milk is made into butter. There are few cheese-dairies. The corn chiefly raised here consists of oats and bear. Wheat, barley, beans, and pease, are sown, but not in great quantities. Clover and rye-grass are sown only for hay. Turnips are much grown as a field crop. Potatoes are skilfully and extensively cultivated, the vast population of the district creating an extraordinary demand for a root so cheap and wholesome. A flock of Merino sheep was brought to this county from Spain in the year 1810, but the experiment proved unsuccessful.
It is by its manufactures and commerce that this county is most distinguished. Goods of silk, and cotton, and muslin fabrics, are the principal articles manufactured. Cotton-mills, bleachfields, and printfields, furnish employment to a large portion of the inhabitants. Paisley and its environs form the chief seat of the manufactures. At Greenock and Port-Glasgow the foreign and coasting trade of the county, and, indeed, a great proportion of the foreign trade of Scotland, are carried on. To prevent repetition, we refer to the articles Paisley, Gbeenock, and Port-Glasgow, for information concerning the manufactures and commerce of Renfrewshire.
The other more considerable towns and villages, with their population in 1831, are as follow: Johnston, 5617 ; Pollockshaws, a burgh of barony, 4267 ; Lochwinnoch, 2645 ; Barrhead and Newton Ralston, 2640 ; Kilbarchan, 2333; Neilston, 1137 ; and Elderslie, 1099.
In 1755 tile population of the county was only 26,645; in 1831 itamounted to 133,443. The increase, therefore, in seventy-six years has been 106,995, being upwards of 400 per cent., which exceeds that of any other county in Scotland.
RENNES, an arrondissement of the department of Ille and Vilaine, in France, extending over 532 square miles, and containing ten cantons, seventy-eight communes, and, in 1836, 130,838 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name, situated at the junction of the two rivers which give name to the department. It is the seat of the departmental government, as it was of that of the province of Normandy in former times. It stands on a fine plain, and, excepting the suburbs, is well built ; the parade being one of the finest squares in France. It has a cathedral and eight other churches, a fine exchange, and in 1836 the population was 35,552. There are extensive linen manufactures, especially of sail-cloth for the royal navy. Cottons are made and printed, and many stockings are woven. Manyof the inhabitants are employed in building, equipping, and navigating vessels. Long. 1.45.7. W. Lat. 43.6. 50. N.
RENNIE, John, a distinguished mechanist, architect, and civil engineer, was born on the 7th of June 1761, at Phantassie, in the parish of Prestonkirk, in the county of East Lothian. His father, a highly respectable farmcr, died in 1766, leaving a widow and nine children, of whom John was the youngest. The first rudiments of his education were acquired at the village school; and as it frequently happens that some trifling circumstance in early life gives a bent to the pursuits and fixes the destinies of the future man, so it fared with young Rennie. The school was situated on the opposite side of a brook, over which it was necessary to pass by means of a rustic bridge of stepping stones ; but when the freshes were out, the only alternative of crossing the stream was by means of a boat, which was kept at the workshop of Mr Andrew Meikle1 an ingenious mechanic, well known in Scotland as the inventor of the thrashing-machine, and many improvements in agricultural implements. In passing through this workshop, which stood on his family property, young Rennie’s attention was forcibly drawn to the various operations that were in progress, and a great part of his leisure and holiday time was passed therein. The sons of Mr Meikle, and the workmen, seeing the delight which he appeared to take in examining their labours, were in the habit of indulging him with their tools, and showing him their various uses. His evenings were chiefly employed in imitating those models which had particularly attracted his attention in the workshop ; and it is known in the family, that, at little more than ten years of age, he had constructed the model of a windmill, a pile-engine, and a steam-engine. That of the pile-engine is still in existence, and is said to be remarkably well made.
Having continued at Preston school till twelve years of age, he had about that time a quarrel with his schoolmaster, whom he deemed incompetent to give him further instruction, and therefore entreated that he might be permitted to leave thc school. But his active mind soon became restless ; for the first time he felt the hours hang heavily on his hands ; and having expressed a wish to be placed under his friend Mr Meikle, he employed himself w ith this ingenious mechanic for about two years ; but his mind expanding with his growth, he bcgan to feel that the progress of his intellectual faculties was likely to be retarded by a constant application to manual labour. He therefore at length determined to place himself under the tuition
of Mr Gibson, an able teacher of mathematics at Dunbar ; where he soon distinguished himself in so particular a manner, that Mr David Loch, general inspector of the fisheries in Scotland, in describing a visit which he paid to the school at Dunbar in 1778, notices the great proficiency displayed by young Rennie ; prophesying that at no distant period he would prove an honour to his country.@@1 From this school, in less than two years, he returned to Mr Meikle, with a mind well stored with every branch of mathematical and physical science which Mr Gibson could teach him. About this time, Mr Gibson being appointed master to the public academy of Perth, he earnestly recommended young Rennie to succeed him at Dunbar. But his views were of a more aspiring cast As a matter of favour, he undertook the management of the school for about six weeks, when he returned to his family, occasionally visiting and assisting his friend Mr Meikle, but mostly improving himself in drawing and making models of machinery. His first essay in practical mechanics was the repairing of a corn-mill in his native village ; and he erected two or three others before he was eighteen years of age.
Resolved, however, that these mechanical occupations should not interfere with his studies, he laid his plans so that he should be able to proceed occasionally to Edinburgh with a view of improving himself in physical science. He there attended the lectures of Professors Robison and Black, and formed that acquaintance with the former of these gentlemen, which was gradually raised into friendship, and which, perhaps, may be said to have laid the foundation of his future fortune ; for by him he was introduced to Messrs Bolton and Watt of Soho, near Birmingham. Witll these gentlemen he remained but a few months, for the purpose of receiving explanations respecting the plan of the Albion Mills, then erecting, the machinery of which he superintended. This exactly suited his views ; for, conscious of his own powers, he deemed the capital the proper theatre to try their strength, and in this he was not mistaken.
In proceeding from Edinburgh to Soho, he had taken the route by Carlisle, Lancaster, Liverpool, and Manchester, for the purpose of visiting the different mills and public w’orks in those great commercial and manufacturing towns ; and the remarks which he made on the bridge then building over the Lune at Lancaster, on the docks at Liverpool, and more particularlyon the Bridgewater Canal, are distinguished by great sagacity, and were of essential use to him afterwards. On leaving Soho, he again made a tour through the manufacturing districts of Leeds, Sheffield, Rotherham, and Newcastle.
For some time after he was settled in London, the Albion Mills, of which Bolton and Watt and Mr Wyatt were the projectors and leading proprietors, and who engaged him to superintend the execution of the mill-work, occupied a great share of his attention. Mr Watt, in his Notes to Professor Robison’s Account of the Steam-Engine, says, that, “ in tlle construction of the mill-work and machinery, they derived most valuable assistance from that able mechanician and engineer Mr John Rennie, then just entering into business, who assisted in placing them, and under whose direction they were executed.” He also says, that the machinery, which used to be made of wood, was here made of cast iron, in improved forms ; and thinks that this was the commencement of that system of mill-work which has proved so beneficial to this country. In fact, Rennie’s mills are the most perfect species of mechanism in that way that exist, distinguished by a precision of movement and a harmony and proportion of parts that now serve as models throughout the empire. His water-mills are so accurately calculated, that every particle of water is
effectively employed, and none of it lost, as in the common mode of constructing water-wheels. There is reason to believe that the difficulties which occurred at the Albion Mills with regard to the ebb and flow of the tides, and which required all the ingenuity of that extraordinary genius, Mr Watt, first led Mr Rennie to the study of that branch of civil engineering connected with hydraulics and hydrodynamics, and in which he soon became so celebrated as to have no rival after the death of Smeaton, in whose steps, he always used to say, he was proud to follow.
Our limited space will not permit us to enter upon even an enumeration of all his great works, much less to give any detailed account of them ; we must therefore content ourselves by mentioning some of the most important designs and undertakings in his threefold capacity of mechanist, architect, and civil engineer ; three branches of art so intimately blended as scarcely to admit of a separation.
First, as a Mechanist. Immediately after the completion of the Albion Mills, in 1786 or 1787, Mr Rennie’s reputation was so firmly established in everything connected with mill-work, that he found himself in a very extensive line of business. To him the planters of Jamaica and of the other West India islands applied for their sugar-mills, which he constructed in a manner so superior to the old ones, that he soon obtained almost a monopoly of these expensive works. The powder-mill at Tunbridge, the great flour-mill at Wandsworth, several saw-mills, the machinery for various breweries and distilleries, were mostly of his manufacture ; and wherever his machinery was required to be impelled by steam, the incomparable engines of his friends Messrs Bolton and Watt supplied the moving power ; but, contrary to what has been stated in some of the public journals, he never had the least concern in directing, contriving, or advising any one part or movement of the steam-engine. He also constructed those beautiful specimens of machinery, the rolling and triturating mills, at the Mint on Tower Hill, to which Bolton and Watt’s engines give motion ; and, at the time of his death, he was engaged in the construction of a rolling-mill, and similar machinery, for the intended mint at Calcutta.
As a bold and ingenious piece of mechanism, which may be considered as distinct from positive architecture, there is nothing in Europe that can hear a comparison with the Southwark Bridge. The three immense arches, the centre one of 240, and each side arch of 210 feet span, consist entirely of masses of cast iron, of various forms and dimensions, put together on the same principle as a similar fabric of hewn stone ; a method of employing iron which may be considered to form a new epoch in the history of bridge-building. Various sinister predictions were entertained against this light and beautiful bridge, which was to be rent in pieces by the expansive power of the first summer’s heat, or, if it escaped that, by the contraction of the first winter’s cold ; but it has stood the test of many winters and summers, and appears not to feel either. Mr Rennie was applied to by the East India Company for the design of a cast-iron bridge to be thrown over the river Goomty at Lucknow, at the desire of the nabob vizier of Oude. It consisted of three arches of cast iron, the centre arch ninety, and each of the other arches eighty feet span. The arches were cast, and a superintending engineer sent out with them ; but on their arrival, the nabob, in one of those moments of caprice to which eastern despots, even in their impotency, are so liable, changed his mind, and would not allow it to be put up.
Secondly, as an Architect. Since there are few parts of civil engineering that do not occasionally require the aid of architecture, Rennie, at a very early stage of his pro-
1
@@@ Loch's Essays on the Trade, Commerce, Manufactures, and Fisheries ofScotland, vol. iii. p∙ 211.
gress, was called upon for a display of his skill in this line. Amongst his first undertakings in either line was that of the Lancaster Canal, which presented many difficulties, and, amongst others, that of carrying it by an aqueduct over the Lune, so as not to interrupt the navigation of the river. Being one of the largest fabrics of its kind in Europe, and of a pleasing design, it is an object that arrests the attention of strangers, and is very generally admired. The bridges of Leeds, Musselburgh, Kelso, Newton-Stewart, Boston, New Galloway, and a multitude of others, attest the architectural skill, the solidity, and, we may add, the good taste of Rennie ; whilst a thousand smaller ones, with the various locks, wharf-walls, quays, embankments appertaining to canals, rivers, and harbours, in every part of the united kingdom, are so many proofs of his diversified talent, and his skill in adapting the means to the end. The breakwater in Plymouth Sound can scarcely be called an architectural work, but it is constructed on true hydrodynamical principles, and so gigantic in its dimensions, and cyclopean in its structure, as to defy equally the force of the waves and the ravages of time. To Mr Whidby, who zealously superintended the execution of this immortal work, the highest praise is also due ; nor was the plan finally determined on without his advice and assistance.
But the architectural work which, above all others, will immortalize the name of Rennie, is the Waterloo Bridge, a structure which, even foreigners admit, has no parallel in Europe (and if not in Europe, certainly not in the whole world) for its magnitude, its beauty, and its solidity. That a fabric so immense, presenting a straight horizontal line, stretching over nine large arches, should not have altered more than a few inches, not five in any one part, from that straight line, is an instance of firmness and solidity utterly unknown, and almost incredible ;@@1 but all Rennie’s works have been constructed for posterity. He made nothing slight ; nor would he engage in any undertaking where, from an ill-judging economy, a sufficiency of funds was not forthcoming to meet his views.
Another work, executed from a design of his, is that of the stone bridge over the Thames, by which the old London Bridge, so long the disgrace of the metropolis, was replaced. His design, which was selected by a committee of the House of Commons, out of at least thirty that w, ere offered, consisted of a granite bridge of five arches, the centre one of 150 feet span, being the largest stone arch in the world which has been constructed in modern times. This great work, an account of which will be found under the head London, cannot but form a remarkable feature in the future history of the capital. For of the five bridges which connect the two banks of the Thames, three have been built from the designs of one man ; a fact which must throw a lustre on the name of Rennie, and be regarded with a feeling of pride by the most distant connection of his family.
Thirdly, as a Civil Engineer. The first great attempt in this line of his profession was the survey and execution of the Crinan Canal, a work remarkable for the multitude of practical difficulties that occurred throughout the whole of this bold undertaking ; it being necessary in many places to cut down through solid rock, to the depth of sixty feet; and it is rather remarkable, that the second undertaking, the Lancaster Canal, was also replete with difficulties, and called for the exercise of his skill as an architect, as we have already seen in noticing the aqueduct over the Lune. But these two works established his reputation as a civil engineer, and his opinion and assistance were required from all quarters. His faculties were now called into full play, and they expanded with the demands made upon them. The rage for canals had pervaded every part of the king
dom, and scarcely any of these useful means of conveyance and communication was thought of without a previous consultation with Rennie ; so that in a few years the surveys he was called upon to make were so numerous, that he knew the surface of England as it were by heart, and could tell at once, when a canal was projected, whereabouts the line of it ought to be carried. The following are some of the most important of those tlle execution of which he personally attended : Aberdeen, Brechin, Grand Western, Kennet and Avon, Portsmouth, Birmingham, Worcester, besides many others.
But the resources of his mind were displayed in all their vigour in the plans and construction of those magnificent docks, which are at once an ornament to the capital, and of the utmost utility to commerce and navigation. Nor are these splendid and useful works confined to the metropolis. The docks at Hull, Greenock, Leith, Liverpool, and Dublin, attest his skill ; and the harbours of Queensferry, Berwick, Howth, Holyhead, Dunleary (now called Kingstown Harbour), Newhaven, and several others, owe their security and convenience to his labours.
But even these works, splendid as they are, must yield to what he has planned and executed in her majesty’s dockyards at Portsmouth, Plymouth, Chatham, and Sheemess. The latter was a mere quicksand of forty feet in depth, mixed with mud and the wrecks of old ships ; the whole of which was excavated, and a magnificent basin constructed, with a beautiful surrounding wall of granite, with which three of the finest dry docks in the universe communicate ; and that important dock-yard, which may be said to command the mouths of the Thames and the Medway, from being an unhealthy and detestable place, and wholly inefficient for its purpose, is now, by being raised many feet, and laid out with skill and judgment, one of the most convenient in the kingdom. He also planned the new naval arsenal at Pembroke, which is considered as a perfect model for a building-yard. But his plan for the projected naval arsenal at Northfleet on the Thames was far superior to all in design ; and upon a scale so grand as to be capable of containing afloat two thirds of the whole navy, with dry docks and slips for repairing and building ships of all classes to the same extent, and with all manner of storehouses, workshops, and manufactories of all such articles as were required for consumption in the navy. But the estimated sum of eight millions, which would probably have amounted to ten, induced the government to pause, and it was finally deemed prudent to abandon the design altogether.
Mr Smeaton, we believe, was the first who used the diving-bell effectually for building with stone under water; but the machine he employed for that purpose was very defective, and could be used only in certain situations. Rennie, however, by improvements in the instrument itself, and in thc machinery by which its movements could be regulated, was enabled to carry on the finest masonry, and the foundations of sea-walls, piers, and quays, as well under water as above it The repairing of the pier-head of Ramsgate Harbour was a remarkable instance of this kind. The violence of the waves, acting upon the bad quality of the stone, had so completely undermined it that the stability of the whole pier began to be endangered. It was from ten to thirteen feet below the level of low water, spring-tides ; yet by means of the improved diving-bell and its apparatus, the pier-head was not only effectually secured, but rendered more solid and durable than it originally had been. In the harbour of Howth the diving-bell was of the utmost use ; and it is remarkable enough, that the masons who have been for a little while accustomed to work under water prefer it, at least tlle Irish masons do, to working in the air,
@@@1 The bridge of Neuilly, which the vanity of the French led them to rank as superior to that of Waterloo, actually sunk 23 incheι.
it being cooler in summer, and warmer m winter ; though an increase of pay for submarine work is probably the real cause of preference.
The last effort of Rennie’s genius to which we shall advert, was the drainage of that vast tract of marsh land bordering upon the rivers Trent, Witham, New Welland, and Ouse, which for centuries past had baffled the skill of some of the ablest men in that department of civil engineering. Upon the same principles, he laid down a grand scheme for draining the whole of that immense district known by the name of the Bedford Level, which has in part been carried into execution by the completion of the Eau-brink Cut, near Lynn. The estimate he made for draining the whole amounted to L.l,200,000.
Such are some of the grand undertakings which Rennie, during the last thirty years of his life, was either employed to project or to carry into execution, and which, on a rough estimate, collected from his valuable Reports, did not fall far short of forty millions sterling ; about twenty millions of which were expended under his own immediate superintendence. Indeed, few great works were carried on, either by the public or individuals, on which he was not either employed or consulted. His industry was very extraordinary. Fond of the society of his select friends, and of rational conversation, he never suffered amusement of any kind to interfere with his business, which seldom engaged him less than twelve hours, and frequently fifteen, in the day. His conversation was always amusing and instructive. He possessed a rich fund of anecdote, and, like his old friend James W’att, told a Scotch story admirably. As a travelling companion, he was highly entertaining ; he !knew everybody on the road, and everybody knew John Rennie. Of an ardent and anxious mind, and naturally impetuous, he was gifted with the most perfect self-control ; and the irritation of the moment was seen but as a light summer’s cloud, passing across his finely-marked features, which were on so large a scale, though blended with much mildness as well as dignity, as to obtain for his noble bust by Chantrey, when exhibited in Somerset House, the name of
Jupiter Tonans.
Were we to seek for a parallel to Rennie, the name of Smeaton would at once suggest itself. Their boyhood was employed precisely in the same manner, in making models of pumps and windmills, whilst their school-fellows were at play ; their pursuits in manhood were similar, and their paramount success pretty nearly the same. But the spirit of speculation and improvement was but just springing up when Smeaton finished his career, and when Rennie began his. He was, in fact, the successor of Smeaton. There was a strong characteristic likeness between Rennie and the late Mr Ramsden. The pursuits of the former embraced a wider sphere of action, but thêy both arrived at their proposed objects by the most simple and obvious, and, at the same time, most effectual means. They were both equally clear in their mode of communicating information to others ; and it is sufficiently remarkable that, in their illustrations, both of them had recourse rarely to any other instrument than a two-feet rule, which each always carried in his pocket. Many a time has the writer of this article derived instruction from the two-feet rules of John Rennie and Jesse Ramsden. They were both equally communicative when they saw that information was desired ; and nothing like professional jealousy, or selfish feelings, actuated either of these ingenious men, who, on the contrary, were always kind and condescending to the more humble artists of their respective professions.
Mr Rennie possessed considerable skill in bibliography ; and being a zealous and liberal collector, he succeeded in forming a very valuable library, consisting of the best and rarest books in all the branches of science and art, of voyages and travels, and many curious books in tlle black let
ter ; whilst in his own department it contained every work of the least merit, in whatever language it might be written. He· had, besides, a good collection of mathematical and astronomical instruments, and frequently spoke of erecting an observatory, but did not live to carry his intention into execution. He had for some years laboured under a disease of the liver, which had apparently yielded to the usual treatment; but a relapse took place, and on the 16th of October 1821, after a few days’ illness, he expired without a struggle, in the sixtieth year of his age.
Mr Rennie, in 1789, married Miss Mackintosh, who died in 1806, leaving a family of seven young children, six of whom are now living. The two eldest, George and John, are successfully following the profession, and promise to tread in the footsteps, of their able and excellent father.
Sixteen mourning coaches, filled with his friends, mostly men of eminence in the arts, sciences, or literature, followed his hearse to St Paul’s, where his remains were interred near those of Sir Christopher Wren. A plain granite slab covers his grave, on which is the following appropriate inscription :
Here lie the mortal remains of JOHN RENNIE,
Civil Engineer,
F. K. S. L. & E. F. A. S. &c. &c.
Born at Phantassie, in East Lothian, 7th June 1761 ; deceased in London 4th Oct. 1821.
THIS STONE
testifies his private virtues, and records
the aflec6on and the respect of his family and his friends; but
the many splendid and useful works by which,
under his superintending genius,
England, Scotland, and Ireland, have been adorned and improved,
are
the true monuments of
his public merit.    
(m.)
RENTERING, in the manufactories, tlle same with fine drawing. It consists in sewing two pieces of cloth edge to edge, without doubling them, so that the seam scarcely appears ; and hence it is denominated
Jine drawing.
It is a French word meaning the same thing, and is derived from the Latin
retrahere,
compounded of
re, in,
and
trαhere,
because the seam is drawn in or covered.
Rentering, in tapestry, is the working new w
τ arp into a piece of damaged tapestry, whether eaten by the rats or otherwise destroyed, and on this warp restoring the ancient pattern or design. The warp must be of woollen, not linen. Amongst the titles of the French tapestry-makers is included that of renterers. Fine drawing is particularly used for a rent or hole, which happens in dressing or preparing a piece of cloth artfully sewed up or mended with silk. All fine drawings are reckoned defects or blemishes, and should be allowed for in the price of the piece. '
RENVERSE, Inverted, in
Heraldry,
is when anything is set with the head downwards, or contrary to its naturtd way of Staniling. Thus, a chevron renverse is a chevron with the point downwards. The same term is also used when a beast is laid on its back.
REOUNZEIK, a town of the Birman empire, situated on the western bank of the Irrawaddy. It carries on a very considerable trade with Rangoon, the chief article being teak timber. Long. 95. 25. E. Lat. 17, 45. N.
REPENTANCE, in general, means sorrow for anything past. In theology it means such a sorrow for sin as produces a change of life, or such a conviction of the evil and danger of a sinful course as is sufficient to produce shame and sorrow in the review of it, and effectual resolutions of amendment.
REPRESENTATIVE, one who personates or supplies the place of another, and is invested with his right and authority. Thus the House of Commons is composed of the representatives of the people in parliament. (See Parliament.)
REPRIEVE, in
Criminal Law
(from
reprendre,
to take back), is the withdrawing of a sentence for an interval of time, by which means the execution is suspended.
REPRISALS, a right which princes claim of taking from their enemies anything equivalent to what the latter unjustly detain from them or their subjects. For as the delay of making war may sometimes be detrimental to individuals who have suffered by depredations from foreign potentates, our laws have in some respects armed the subject with power to impel the prerogative, by directing the ministers of the crown to issue letters of marque and reprisal upon due demand ; the prerogative of granting which is nearly related to, and plainly derived from, that of making war, tlle former indeed being only an incomplete state of hostilities, and generally ending in a formal denunciation of war. These letters are grantable by the law of nations, whenever the subjects of one state are oppressed and injured by those of another ; and justice is denied by that state to which the oppressor belongs. In this case letters of marque and reprisal (words used as synonymous, and signifying, the latter a taking in return, the former the passing the frontiers in order to such taking) may be obtained, in order to seize the bodies or goods of the subjects of tlle offending state, until satisfaction be made, wherever they happen to be found. And indeed this custom of reprisals seems dictated by nature herself ; for which reason we find in the most ancient times very notable instances of it. But here the necessity is obvious of calling in the sovereign power to determine when reprisals may be made, else every private sufferer would be a judge in his own cause. In pursuance of this principle, it is with us declared by the statute 4 Henry V. c. 7, that if any subjects of the realm are oppressed in time of truce by any foreigners, the king will grant letters of marque in due form to all who feel themselves aggrieved. The form to be observed is thus prescribed : The sufferer must first
apply to the lord privy-seal, and he shall make out letters of request under the privy-seal ; and if, after such request of satisfaction made, the party required do not within a convenient time make due satisfaction or restitution to the party aggrieved, the lord chancellor shall make him out letters of marque and reprisal under the great seal ; and by virtue of these he may attack and seize the property of the aggressive nation, without hazard of being condemned as a robber or a pirate.
REPROBATION, in
Theology,
means the act of abandoning, or state of being abandoned, to eternal destruction, and is applied to that decree which God has made from all eternity to punish sinners who shall die in impenitence ; in which sense it is directly opposed to election. When a sinner is so hardened as to feel no remorse or misgiving of conscience, it is considered as a sign of reprobation ; which by the casuists has been distinguished into positive and negative. The first is that by which God is supposed to create men with a positive and absolute resolution to damn them eternally. This opinion is countenanced by St Augustin and other Christian Fathers, and is a peculiar tenet of Calvin and most of his followers. The Church of England, in the Thirty-nine Articles, teaches Somethinglikeit; and the Church of Scotland, in the Confession of Faith, maintains it in the strongest terms. But the notion is generally exploded, and is believed by no rational divine in either church, being totally injurious to the justice of the Deity. Negative or conditional reprobation is that by which God, though he has a sincere desire to save men, and furnishes them with the necessary means, so that all, if they will, may be saved, yet sees that there are many who will not be saved by the means, however powerful, which are afforded them ; though by other means which the Deity sees, but will not afford them, they might be saved- Reprobation respects angels as well as men.
REPRODUCTION is usually understood to mean the restoration of a thing before existing, and since destroyed. It is very well known that trees and plants may be raised from slips and cuttings ; and there are some animals which have the same property of being reproduced.
REPTILIA. REPTILES.@@1
These form the third great division of the animal kingdom, and in systematic works on natural history occupy an intermediate position between the class of birds and that of fishes.@@
2
As in tracing the modifications of various organs, from the Zoophytical and radiated animals to the molluscous, from these to the articulated classes, and onwards through the fishes to the reptile tribes, it is among the last named that we first perceive the passage from the truly aquatic to the terrestrial or air-breathing animal,—so the respiratory organs of such tribes are naturally those which excite the greatest and most peculiar interest. Among the more important classes of animals, respiration is effected in one or other of two ways ; l
st
, either by certain internal cellular sacs, for the reception of air, called
lungs,
which communicate with the mouth and nose by means of the trachea or windpipe; or,
2dly,
by external organs called
gills,
which require either to float in water, or to be in some other way continually immersed in that fluid. The object of both contrivances is to subject the blood to the influence of vital air, and this end is obtained very admirably, though
in a different way, by each. All mammiferous animals or quadrupeds, including whales, all birds, and all reptiles (in the perfect state), possess the first form of the respiratory organs ; all fishes, and several reptiles in their adolescent condition, are distinguished by the second. But even among such as are furnished with true lungs, we observe different modifications of the circulating system.
The principal characteristic of reptiles in general consists in this, that only a portion of the blood is transmitted through the lungs, the remainder being projected by the heart directly to the other parts of the body, without being specially subjected to the influence of the respiratory organs ; whereas, in the higher classes, such as man, the rest of the mammalia, and birds, the whole of the blood must pass by the lungs before it is retransmitted to the more distant parts of the circulating system. The amphibious habits of such reptiles as are unprovided with gills, result in a great measure from the power which they thus possess of carrying on a partial circulation of the blood, independent of respiration. The respiration of animals, or the process by which the blood is oxygenated, becomes weaker and less
@@@1 The natural history of reptiles is frequently treated of under the term Erpetology, from
ii τeτtt, reptile,
and    
ducaurts.
The verb ïj»u, signifies
to creep.
@@@2 See our general sketch, under the title of Ανιμαι. ΚινGDομ, in this Encyclopædia, vol. iii. pp. 155-180.
frequent in proportion to the diminution which takes place in the quantity of blood transmitted to the lungs, compared with that which passes directly from the heart ; and as it is respiration which warms the blood, and produces in the fibres their susceptibility of nervous irritation, it follows, as observed by Cuvier, that the blood of reptiles is cold, and their muscular strength much less than that of birds and quadrupeds. The scat of their sensations is also much less centralised than in the last-named classes, and hence many of them exhibit life and motion long after their heads have been severed from their bodies.@@1
A truly amphibious animal, according to the proper meaning of the term (which is derived from
aypt, on both sides,
and ∕3<c{,
life),
ought to possess the power of breathing under water like a fish, and of respiring atmospheric air like a land animal. According to this interpretation, neither seals, nor beavers, nor even whales, are truly amphibious, for they cannot sustain their existence under water except by the use of a certain portion of air which they have previously inspired at the surface. In like manner, neither the frog nor the tadpole is amphibious (unless it may be for a short intermediate period, or state of transition) ; for the former seeks the water merely as a place of temporary resort, in which it cannot breathe, and the latter is entirely aquatic, being unprovided with lungs, and consequently unable to respire, except through the medium of water. A frog, therefore, can only be said to be amphibious in as far as it possesses, at two different periods of its life, the faculty of living first in the water and then on the land. Born with gills, and destitute of external members, its form and functions are originally rather those of a fish than of a reptile ; but as it advances in growth, the four limbs become developed, the tail decreases and disappears, the jaws are formed, and the gills absorbed, and their functions supplied by lungs. But the peculiar structure of the heart, already mentioned, enables these and other species to remain submerged for a great length of time.
Among the many wonderful anomalies, however, with which the kingdom of nature presents us, there exist two truly amphibious animals, the
proteus
and the
siren,
both of which are provided at one and the same time with the gills of a fish and the lungs of a terrestrial creature. But their propensities are decidedly aquatic. The former inhabits certain subterranean waters in Carniola, the latter rejoices in the muddy marshes of South Carolina.@@2 Both will be hereafter noticed.
The amount of respiration is by no means so fixed or determinate among reptiles as it may be said to be in quadrupeds and birds, but varies with the proportion which the diameter of the pulmonary artery bears to that of the aorta. Thus, turtles and lizards respire much more than frogs and others of the class ; and from this results a much greater difference in energy and sensibility between different tribes of Reptilia, than exists among the members of the class of quadrupeds or birds. Reptiles also may be said to exhibit a much greater variety of form, aspect, and condition, than either of the classes just named ; and it is in their production that nature (as we are wont to term the powers of the Omnipotent Creator), has invented the most extraordinary forms and modifications which exist among the vertebrated division of the animal kingdom.
No reptile is known to hatch its eggs, and in the Batra-chian order (frogs, toads, &c.) fecundation does not take
place till after the female has excluded the so-called ova, which in such cases are covered merely by a slight and simple membrane, bearing no resemblance to a shell. The young of this Batrachian order, on leaving the egg, bear the general form of fishes, and are, moreover, furnished with gills, which a few of them retain even after acquiring lungs, and assuming the other attributes of maturity. Among several of the egg-laying species, the included young are not only formed, but far advanced at the period of laying ; while a few, such as vipers and certain lizards, are actually born alive, being hatched within the body of the mother. Hence the expression by which these are designated, of
ovo-viυi-pwrcηιs.
Some even of those which usually lay eggs may be rendered viviparous by a short retardation of the process of laying, as effected by M. Geoffroy in the case of certain snakes by merely depriving them of water.
Although many reptiles are active leapers, and even run with rapidity for a short distance, the coldness of their blood, and proportional want of muscular power, induce on the whole an indolent habit. They are probably, of all vertebrated animals, the least perfectly endowed with the power of migratory movement. The brain is proportionally very small, a sea-tortoise, for example, weighing twenty-nine pounds, having been found to possess brains to the weight only of two drams, that is, equal to not more than an eighteen hundred and fifty-sixth part of the entire animal. Now, we know, that in several small birds and quadrupeds, the brain exceeds a thirtieth part of the remainder of the body. In reptiles, indeed, the brain seems less necessary than among other vertebrated beings, to the exercise of the animal and vital functions, and their sensations are less referable to a common centre. Connection with the nervous system is also much less necessary to the contraction of their fibres, and a portion of their flesh possesses its irritability long after separation from the rest of the body. The heart beats for several hours after being extracted, and the said extraction docs not prevent the body itself from moving about for a considerable time. The cerebellum in several species is extremely small, a fact regarded as being in exact accordance with their indolence of movement.
The small size of the pulmonary vessels admits of reptiles suspending their respiration without arresting the course of the blood, and they can accordingly dive more easily, and continue submerged for a longer time, than either mammiferous quadrupeds or birds. The cellules of the lungs being less numerous, as having fewer vessels to lodge upon their parietes, are much wider, and these organs have sometimes indeed the form of simple sacs scarcely cellular.
They are all provided with a trachea and larynx, although many are entirely mute. Their blood being naturally cold, they have no need of such integuments as fur or feathers to retain the heat, and are covered either by scales or a naked skin.
Although no portion of the organ of hearing is external in reptiles, yet among crocodiles there is an appearance of an outer
meatus auditorius,
owing to the skin forming a thick cover over the tympanum. This peculiar formation is sufficient to explain a passage in Herodotus, who states, that the Egyptians were in the habit of suspending jewels from the ears of the crocodile.
The digestion in reptiles is extremely slow, and all their sensations are obtuse. In cold, and even in temperate climates, they fall into a state of torpor during the prevalence
@@@1 “ Les muscles ties reptiles conservent plus long temps encore leur irritabilité que ceux des poissons. Nous avons vu des era. pauds, des salamandres, des tortues, des serpens, privés de la tête et dépouillés de leur peau depuis plusieurs jours, et maintenus humides, produire encore des mouvemens pendant des semaines entières ; un tortue terrestre, du poids des près de 40 kilogrammes, morte depuis plusieurs jours, dont le cou était tombé dans cette sorte de flaccidité, suite de la raideur qui survient après la mort, dont les yeux en particulier avaient la comëe dessechée, manifester des mouvemens par la Contractionsetla retraction des membres, toutes les fois qu'on stimulait, en les piquant, les muscles des membres postërieurs.” (Dumeril et Bibron,
Erp toloffie,
i. 41.)
@@@2 See Wilson’s
/Uustrationt
of Zoology,
voL i.
of chilly weather, being more than any other class of creatures under the influence of temperature,—“ frigida æstu-antium animalia ;” and what is truly singular, is the fact mentioned by Humboldt, that the inverse cause produces a corresponding effect on some of the species of tropical climates, the caymans or crocodiles of South America becoming torpid, and entombing themselves in mud, during the prevalence of the hottest season.
Indeed, among the more singular features in the economy of the reptile race, may be numbered their power of enduring long-continued abstinence, and the lethargic state, infinitely more profound than the winter sleep of quadrupeds, into which they yearly fall. In connection with this subject, Mr Jacobson of Copenhagen has recognised in reptiles a special arrangement of certain vessels which constitute a peculiar
venous system.
This system may be said to exist more or less in all the race ; but, rudimentary in the tortoises and crocodiles, it shows its chief development among the other Saurians, and the Ophidian and Batrachian groups. “ It is composed of the veins of the abdominal members, the pelvian or caudal veins, the hinder veins of the kidneys, the veins of the oviductus, a great portion of the veins of the skin, of those of the muscles of the abdomen, and of those of certain organs peculiar to the reptiles. These veins combine, and form one or many trunks, which proceed either into the vena porta or the liver, or into both. What especially distinguishes this system is, that in it a part of the veins of the organs of locomotion, and of the skin, proceed to distribute themselves into the liver. There is no other example of tllis among the vertebrated animals. Certain special organs appear connected with this venous system in a peculiar manner, and are regarded by Mr Jacobson as proper for secreting and preserving a nutritive juice, destined to be re-absorbed in the rigorous months of the severe season, during the hybernal slumber of these animals.”@@1
In regard to the geographical distribution of reptiles in general, we shall here briefly observe, that they augment in number as we advance towards the equatorial regions. While Sweden possesses scarcely a dozen snakes and lizards, about three or four frogs and toads, and not a single tortoise, the temperate parts of Europe produce about forty snakes and lizards, and several of the tortoise tribe. In Scandinavia, however, although the species are so few in number, the individuals are much more abundant than in Britain ; from which we infer, that it is rather the want of strong continuous summer heat than the actuality of our winter’s cold, that is unfavourable to the production of reptiles in our cloudy clime. As soon as we gain the southern extremity of Spain, the number of species in these tribes greatly increases, and in Andalusia the African complexion of the country is still further manifested by tlle frequent appearance of the chameleon. On proceeding further south, not only does the number of reptiles increase, but they also augment in size, splendour, and ferocity, till from the Tropic of Cancer onwards and beyond the line, we meet with crocodiles, caymans, boas, and other giants of the reptile race. Several species, however, even in sultry latitudes, are subjected by their peculiar position to the influence of severe cold. Thus the
axolotl
of Mexico occurs in the chill waters of lakes elevated above 8000 feet from the surface of the sea ; and the salamander (a water newt) of Europe is frequently found frozen up in ice in early spring, without being destroyed. Indeed, Dufay has remarked, as a singular circumstance, that those very animals of which it. once was fabled they could withstand the fiery flames, are in reality endowed with the almost equally surprising power of resisting frost, so generally fatal to the life of reptiles.
Although we have now endeavoured to state a few of what may be regarded as the generalities of the reptile class, ' yet it must be borne in mind, that no great division of the animal kingdom exhibits such a singular diversity of form and aspect, or is more liable to exceptions from whatever features we may incline to consider as general characteristics. “ Aussi les reptiles,” says Baron Cuvier, “ presentent-ils des formes, des mouvements, et des propriétés beaucoup plus variés que les deux classes précédentes (quadrupeds and birds) ; et c’est surtout dans leur production que la nature semble s’être jouée à imaginer des formes bizarres, et à modifier dans tous les sens possibles le plan général qu’elle a suivi pour les animaux vertébrés, et spécialement pour les classes ovipares.” Among no animals indeed do we meet with beings of more singular forms than in the class Keptilia, many of which exhibit an aspect so unusual, so grotesque, and even so formidable, that it would be difficult for the imagination of the poet or the painter to exceed the “ dread realities” of nature. Although the majority are oviparous, some, as we have said, produce their young alive. Many have four legs, some only two, which vary from an anterior to a posterior pair, while the entire tribe of serpents have no legs at all. Some have their bodies more or less closely beset by scales, varying in size from extreme tenuity to the strength and thickness of mailed armour ; many, as the numerous tribes of frogs, are defended only by a soft and mucous skin ; as many more are shut up in a strong bony box-like covering, within w hich they dwell, as in an impregnable castle. The greater number possess a tail, but several entirely want that organ. Numerous tribes live unceasingly in the water, others pass their infancy in moist abodes, their maturer years on terra firma, provided in the former case with gills, in the latter with lungs for respiration. Marshes and muddy swamps, the dry and desert sands, the umbrageous woods, the upland mountains, the “ resounding shores,” are all alike pervaded by one or many of the numerous forms of reptile life. The subterranean proteus fears the light, though dealing in no deeds of darkness ; the agile lizard, “ all scaled silver bright,” basks delighted beneath the beams of the most brilliant sun, “ no cloud in heaven.” Some are fierce and carnivorous, others gentle and herbivorous. The most deadly poison is distilled by many, while entire tribes are quite innocuous ; and while some are resplendent in burnished gold and azure, “ like mailed angels on a battle-day,” as many exhibit the last stage of ugliness in
worse
Than fables yet have feigned or fear conceived,
Gorgons, and hydras, and chimeras dire.
It has been observed, that in the popular superstitions of various countries, the reptile race have been almost always clothed in revolting attributes, and that the worship accorded them was one not of gratitude, but fear.8 Victor or vanquished, they seem ever to have borne a cruel and pestilential character, in opposition to the welfare of the human race ; and the prowess both of gods and men was called into frequent and vigorous exercise for their subduction. “ Glorious Apollo” pursued the enormous Python with his unerring shafts ; the dreadful Acheloiis w∙as strangled by the son of Jove, in spite of folds “ voluminous and vast ;” the Hesperian gardens and the golden fleece were protected by fierce dragons ; Perseus, from the dripping head of Medusa, sowed with serpents the arid Libyan sands; and gorgons and furies, discord and envy, are armed by the poets with snakes, “ as appropriate emblems of their ministry of vengeance.”
It was chiefly on the comparative consideration of thc amount of respiration, and of the organs of movement, that
1
@@@ Griffith’s Animal Kingdom, ix. 182.    2 ibid, 20.
M.
Brogniart founded the four great orders of the class Reptilia, which are now so generally adopted in the works of systematic authors.@@1 They are as follows.
l
st
, The Chelonian Reptiles (turtles, tortoises, &c.), of which the heart is provided with two auricles, and the body, borne on four legs, is contained as it were within an upper and an under buckler, formed by a peculiar structure of the ribs and sternum.
2d,
The Saurian Reptiles (crocodiles, lizards, &c.), which have likewise two auricles and four legs, but the body is covered w, ith scales.
3
d
, The Ophidian Reptiles (or serpents), which have a heart furnished with two auricles, but the body is destitute of legs.
4
th
, The Batrachian Reptiles (frogs, toads, &c.), in which
tlle
heart has only a single auricle, the body is naked, and the majority of species undergo a kind of transition as they advance in age, from the form of a fish with gills to that of a quadruped with lungs. Some, however, as already mentioned, never lose their gills, and a few have only a single pair of legs.
Our notices of the various genera of the different orders must be here extremely brief; and in the following slight sketch we shall adhere, as we have done in most of our zoological treatises, to the systematic exposition of Baron Cuvier.@@2
Order I.—CHELONIA. CHELONIAN REPTILES.
The various groups of this order are known to English readers by the general names of
tortoise
and
turtle,—
the former appellation being usually bestowed on those which dwell on land, the latter on such as inhabit water. The heart is composed of two auricles, and of a ventricle with two unequal chambers communicating with each other. The blood from the body enters into the right auricle, that from the lung into the left ; but both streams mingle together more or less in passing by the ventricle.
All the species of this order are distinguished at first sight by the peculiar armature in which the body is contained, and which consists of an upper and under buckler, nearly meeting along their edges, and permitting only the head, limbs, and tail to appear externally. The upper buckler, called the
carapace,
is formed by the ribs, which amount to eight pair, extended and united by toothed sutures between, and having bony plates adhering to the annular portion of the dorsal vertebra, and so connected that all these parts are rendered motionless. The under buckler is called the
plastron,
and is composed of portions which represent the sternum, and which are usually nine in number. A kind of lateral edging or frame-work, consisting of osseous pieces, bearing some analogy to the sternal or cartilaginous portion of the ribs, and which in one sub-genus even continue cartilaginous, surrounds the carapace, binding and uniting together the ribs by which it is composed. Thus the cervical and caudal vertebra alone retain the power of distinct movement. See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 1.
These two bony envelopes being covered immediately by skin or scales, the shoulder-blade and all the muscles of the neck and fore-arms, instead of having their attachments over the ribs and spine, as in other animals, are supported from beneath these parts ; and the same peculiarity occurs in relation to the bones of the lower extremity and the muscles of the thighs, so that, as Baron Cuvier observes, a turtle may be termed “
un animal retourne f
as if it had been turned inside out.
The vertebral extremity of the shoulder-blade articulates with the carapace ; and the opposite end, which may be regarded as analogous to the clavicle, articulates with the plastron in such a manner that the two shoulders form a ring through which the oesophagus and wind-pipe pass. A third bony branch, larger than the other two, and directed downwards and backwards, represents, as in birds, the coracoid process, but its posterior extremity is free.
The lungs are much expanded, and lie in the same cavity with the other viscera. The thorax being immoveable in the majority of species, it is by the play of the mouth that the Chelonians respire,—holding the jaws closed, and alternately lowering and raising the hyoid bone. The first movement permits the air to enter by the nostrils, and then the tongue closing the interior opening, tlle second movement forces the air into the lungs.
The Chelonians have no teeth, but their jaws are furnished with a horny substance like the mandibles of birds, with the exception of the
Chelydes,
in which they are cover
@@@
1
Essai d'une Classification Naturelle des Reptiles,
Paris, 1805.
@@@2 The following are some of the principal works on reptiles in general. We do not here name those systematic writers who have treated of the class in question merely in t tie course of their universal exposition of the animal kingdom, although they are elsewhere referred to in the progress of the present treatise.
J. N. Iaurenti,
Specimen Mediαιm, exhibens synopsis Reptilium emendatam, cum experimentis circa venena et antidota Reptilium Austria, eorum,
1768. This work has been since attributed to M. Winterl, a chemist of Vienna, who is merely named by Laurenti, on the terminal page, as having been a co-labourer in his therapeutical experiments. Lacepède,
Histoire Naturelle des Quadrupèdes Ovipares et des Serprns, 2
vols. 4to, 1788-90. The Abbé Bonnaterre is the author of the text which accompanies the plates of reptiles in the French
Encyclopédie,
under the title of
Tableau Eitcyclopidique et Mithodique des trois Règnes de ta Nature (Erpétologie et Ophiologie),
4to, 1789-90. L. J. M. Daubenton composed
Les Quadrupèdes Ovipares et les Scrpens,
in
Dictionnaire des Animaux Vertébrés,
tom. ii. part. 
de CEncyclop. Method.
J. G. Schneider, the celebrated Greek scholar, has not published any general work on reptiles, but has written extensively on various groups. His productions are the following:—
Amphibiorum Physiologiae Specim.
i. and ii. 1797∙
Amphibiorum naturalis et Httcrariee Fascicutns primus, continens Runas, Calamitas, Bufones, Satamandras, et Hydros, in genera et species descriptos notisque suis distinctos,
I799.
Fasciciitiu secundus, continens Crocodilos, Scincos, Chanursuuros, Boas, Pseudoboas, Etapes, Angues, Amphisbanas, Ca-
cilias,
1801. Latreille,
Histoire Halnrette des Reptites,
four vols, small 12mo, 1801. Dr Shaw,
Generat Zoology,
vol. iii__
Amphibia,
1802. F. M. Daudin,
Histoire KatareUe des Reptiles,
eight vols. 8vo, 1802-3. Alex-Brogniart,
Essai d'une Classification Naturelle des Reptiles,
1805. M. Oppel, Die
Ordnungen Famitien und Gattnngen der Reptilien, ah Prodrom einer Natiirgeschichtc dersetben,
one vol. 4to, 1811. Bias. Merrem,
Tentamen Systematis Arnphibiorum,
one vol. 8vo, 1820. A. H. Haworth, A Letter on the Binary Arrangement of the Class of Reptiles, in the
Phitosophieat Maganine
for 1825, p. 372. F. J. Fitzinger,
Neue Classification der Reptilien,
one small vol. 4to, 1826. Ritgen, A Classification of Reptiles, in
Nova Acta Acad. Nat. Cur.
for 1828. Bory St Vincent,
Résumé d'Erpétotogie, ou Hist. Nat. des Reptiles,
12mo, 1828. J. Wagler,
Naturtiches system der Amphibien,
one vol. 8vo, 1830. We have also by the same author an uncompleted work,
Iconcs et Descriptiones Amphibiorum,
two fascic. folio, 1830, as well as some explications and critical remarks on Seba’s plates of reptiles
(Isis,
1833, ninth cahier, p. 885). J. E. Gray,
Synopsis Rcptitium,
part 1st, 1831 ; and later in tbe same year,
Synopsis of the species of the Class Reptitia,
in Griffith’s
Animat Kingdom,
end of vol. ix. John Muller,
Beitrage fur Ana. tomie und Naturgcschichtc der Amphibien,
in Zeitschrift fur Physiologie von Tiedemann, &c. No. 19, p. 190, 1832. H. T. Schinz, 
Naturgeschiehte und Abbitdnngen der Reptilien,
4 fascic. large 4to, 1833. We conclude the list with a reference to a work already named, and frequently hereafter quoted, the
Erpétologie Générale, ou Histoire Hatnretle complète des Reptiles,
of Messrs Dumeril and Bibron (four vols. 8vo, with plates), 1834-38. This work is still in course of publication. It contains as yet only the Chelonian1 and a great portion of the Saurian Orders ; and when to these are added the Ophidian and Batrachian tribes, we doubt not it will be de∙ servedly regarded as the highest authority extant in all that regards the reptile race. We shall afterwards indicate the principal more special works which apply to particular departments of the’subject in hand.
ed with skin. Their tympanic cavity and palatine arches are fixed to the cranium, and immoveable. The tongue is short, and beset with fleshy filaments. The stomach is simple and strong, the intestines of medium length, and unfurnished with a cæcum. The bladder is very large. The females in this order produce eggs provided with a hard shell. The males of many species may be recognised by the greater concavity of the plastron.@@1
The limbs of Chelonian reptiles being so confined between the carapace and plastron, their powers of locomotion, at least on land, are very limited. They can scalcely raise their bodies above the surface of the ground, and they advance by a slow, awkward, and apparently embarrassed action. But the aquatic species being provided with fin-like members, and dwelling amid a fluid well adapted to their use, the flat and smoothly expanded bodies of these creatures glide along with great ease and considerable swiftness. Such of the land species as inhabit temperate countries pass the colder seasons of the year in a state of torpidity, having previously excavated or taken possession of some secure and subterranean retreat. They are supposed to be extremely long lived. The marine species are more tropical in their distribution ; and we are not aware that any hybernation takes place among them. They are often met with many hundred leagues from land. They deposit their eggs on sandy shores, where they are hatched by the heat of the sun,—the process of laying being usually carried on during the night.
The dimensions of animals of this order exhibit a great range, some being only a few inches in length, while others attain to a gigantic size, and weigh many hundred pounds. They are all extremely tenacious of life,—whether under the effects of long-continued abstinence while being conveyed from distant regions, or when suffering from the infliction of grievous wounds. Indeed they will live for months, or, as it is alleged, even for years, without any food, and will show decided symptoms of life and locomotion for several weeks after their heads have been severed from their bodies.
The whole of this order was formerly contained in the old and unrestricted genus Testudo of Linnæus, divided by Cuvier into the five following generic groups, of which the distinctive characters are mainly derived from the form and covering of the carapace, and from tlle feet.
Genus Testudo, Brogn. Tortoises. Carapace bulged, supported by a solid bony frame-work, and soldered by the greater portion of its lateral edges to the plastron. Legs as if truncated, the toes extremely short, and united almost to the nails, of which there are five to the fore-feet, and four to the hinder, all thick and conical.
The species, most of which subsist on vegetables, are too numerous to be here described, but we shall indicate a few of the more noted or remarkable.
The Greek tortoise (
'Γ. Grœca,
Linn.) is the most common of the European kinds, and occurs in most of the countries which surround the Mediterranean, and in several islands of that sea. lt is distinguished by its broad and equally bulged carapace, its relieved scales, granulated in the centre, striated on the margins, and spotted, or rather marbled, with black and yellow ; in the centre of its posterior margin there is a small prominence slightly curved over the tail. The Greek tortoise lives on leaves, fruits, and insects. It sleeps throughout the winter, pairs in spring, and lays four or five eggs resembling those of a pigeon. It seldom attains to the length of twelve inches, its general extent being from six to eight. This species has been known to reach an extraordinary old age. One of the most remarkable instances has been often recorded. It is that of a tortoise which was introduced into the archie-piscopal garden at Lambeth in the time of Archbishop Laud, about the year 1633, and continued there till 1753, when it died, as was supposed, rather from accidental neglect than the effect of old age. Its shell is preserved in the library of the palace. The Greek turtle is used as an article of food in some of the southern countries of Europe. According to Forskal, it retires under ground in September, and re-appears in February. In this country it hybemates later, and does not emerge so soon. It lays its eggs in June, in a small hole, which it scratches in some sunny spot, and the young are hatched in autumn, being on their first exclusion about the size of walnuts.
Of the foreign species, one of the most remarkable for size is the Indian tortoise
(T. Indica,
Vosm.), first described by M. Perrault. It has been taken on the coast of Coromandel, and sometimes measures four feet and a half from the nose to the tail, with a height or convexity of fourteen inches. The shell is brown, reflected or turned upwards over the neck ; and there is a tubercle on each of the three anterior scutella.
Other species are less remarkable for size than for the beautiful distribution of the colours by which they are adorned. Such is the geometrical tortoise (
T. geometrica,
Linn.), which is easily distinguished by the symmetrical regularity with which the yellow rays, and the alternate lines of brown and yellow, are disposed upon
tlle
scales of the upper shield. Certain species have the anterior part of the shield move-able, while in others the posterior portion is in that condition. The former constitute the genus Pyxis of Mr Bell, while the latter pertain to the genus Kinixis of that author.
Genus Emys, Brogn. Fresh-water tortoises.
The species of this genus are not distinguishable from those of the preceding by more important characters than the greater separation of the toes, which are terminated by longer nails, and have their intermediate spaces filled up by membrane. The number of the nails is the same, but the form of their feet enables them to indulge in more aquatic propensities. Their envelope is generally of a flatter form than that of the terrestrial species, and the majority live on insects, small fishes, &c. See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 2.
One of the best known of this group is the speckled tortoise
(T. Europœa,
Schn.;
T. orbicularis,
Linn.), a small species, pretty widely distributed over the southern and eastern countries of Europe. Its carapace is of an oval form, but slightly convex, rather smooth, of a blackish colour, beset with innumerable small yellow spots. Its length seldom exceeds ten inches. This creature inhabits lakes, marshes, and muddy places. Its flesh is esteemed as food, on which account it is sometimes kept in ponds appropriated to the purpose, and fattened with lettuce leaves, bread, and other substances. It may also be kept in a cellar, and fed with oats scattered on the floor. These it eats readily, especially when they have begun to germinate. Its natural food, however, is said to consist of insects, slugs, &c. It deposits its eggs in warm and sandy places, and Marsigli alleges that an entire year elapses before they are hatched.
Another species of this genus is
la Bourbeuse
of the French (7, .
lutαria,
Linn.), commonly called the mud-tortoise. It is a small animal, with a Aattish brown-coloured shield, and a tail of considerable length, which, instead of being kept bent inwards, is stretched out in walking. It is well known in France, and is particularly plentiful in Languedoc and many parts of Provence. It has been known to occur in such abundance in a lake of about half a league in width in the plain of Durance, that the neighbouring peasantry, on one occasion, almost entirely sustained themselves
1
@@@
Rigne Animal,
ii. 8.
upon them continuously for three months. Though the species is aquatic, it always lays its eggs on land. When the young are first hatched they do not measure above six lines in diameter. Like most other tortoises, it may be tamed, and its love of slugs and snails makes it a useful adjunct to a garden. Yet it must be borne in mind, that however beneficial to the horticulturist, it is a dangerous inmate of the fish-pond, where it attacks and destroys the inhabitants, first biting them till they become enfeebled through loss of blood, and then dragging them to the bottom, where it quietly devours everything but the bones and some of the cartilaginous parts of the head. The air-bladder also is often left, and, swimming on the surface, gives notice of the depredation done below. The mud-tortoise walks with greater quickness and activity than the ordinary land species, especially on even ground.
The painted tortoise (
T. picta)
likewise pertains to this genus. It is a beautiful little creature, with a smooth, rather Aattish shield, of a brown colour, and each compartment bordered by a yellow band. It is a North American species, often seen congregated in clear sunny weather along the sides of rivers on stones and trunks of fallen trees, from which it plunges into the water on the slightest disturbance. It swims swiftly, but walks slowly, and is said to be very voracious, sometimes even destroying ducklings, by seizing their feet and dragging them below the water.
A few species with the neck more elongated (such as
T. Iongicollis,
Shaw) form the genus Hydraspis of Bell. There are also some peculiar species called
tortues à boite
by the French, in which the plastron or lower shield is divided into two by a moveable articulation. These tortoises can close their carapace, and so shut themselves up as in a box, after having drawn in their head and legs. Such is the close tortoise (
T. clausa,
GmeI.), so called on account of the peculiarity just alluded to. The shell is of great strength, and although the creature itself rarely exceeds a few inches in length, it remains uninjured under a weight of five or six hundred pounds. It occurs in different parts of North America, being usually found in marshy places, though sometimes seen in dry and sultry situations. It feeds on insects, mice, and even snakes, which it is said to seize by the middle, and crush to death by drawing them within its shell.
Others have the tail and limbs by much too large to be withdrawn into the shell. Such is the long-tailed tortoise 
( T. serpentina,
Linn.), a fresh-water species, native to the warmer parts of North America, where it is known under the name of snapping turtle. It is of considerable size, sometimes weighing twenty pounds, and seizes upon its prey (fish, ducklings, &c.) with great force and rapidity, stretching out its neck, and uttering a hissing sound. Its grasp is so tenacious that it will suffer itself to be lifted up by a stick rather than quit its hold. The tail is almost as long as the body, and is beset by sharp raised ridges. The plates of the shield assume a somewhat pyramidal form. See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 3.
GENusCHEDONtAj Brogn. Turtles, or sea-tortoises. This group differs from all the preceding in its long, flat, fin-like feet, with the toes closely united, and enclosed within the membrane. The first two toes of each foot alone are furnished with nails, one or other of which often drops off at a certain term of life. The different portions of the lower shield do not form a continuous plate, but are variously dentated, and have large intervals covered by cartilage alone. The ribs are narrow, and separate from each other at their outer portion ; but the circumference of the shield is occupied throughout by a circle of pieces corresponding to the sternal ribs. The interior of the oesophagus is entirely beset by sharp cartilaginous points directed towards the stomach.
To illustrate the prevailing habits of these curious creatures, we shall extract the following notices regarding se
veral species of sea-turtle, from one of those delightful papers with which Mr Audubon has enlivened his Ornithological Biography. That gentleman’s observations were made chiefly among the Tortugas, a group of low uninhabitable islands, or rather banks of shelly sand, which lie about eighty miles from Key West, off the peninsula of the Floridas. As usual, the author intermingles his minuter notices of natural history with very pleasing sketches of the general features of the surrounding scene. “ If you have never seen the sun setting in those latitudes, I would recommend you to make a voyage for the purpose ; for I much doubt if, in any other portion of the world, the departure of the orb of day is accompanied by such gorgeous appearances. Look at the great red disk increased to triple its ordinary dimensions ! Now it has partially sunk beneath the distant line of waters, and with its still remaining half irradiates the whole heavens with a flood of golden light, purpling the far-off clouds that hover over the western horizon. A blaze of refulgent glory streams through the portals of the west, and the masses of vapour assume the semblance of mountains of molten gold. But the sun has now disappeared, and from the east slowly advances the gray curtain which night draws over the world.” “ Slowly advancing landward, their heads alone above water, are observed the heavily-laden turtles, anxious to deposit their eggs in the well-known sands. On the surface of the gently rippling stream, I dimly see their broad forms, as they toil along, while at intervals may be heard their hurried breathings, indicative of suspicion and fear. The moon, with her silvery light, now illumines the scene, and the turtle having landed, slowly and laboriously drags her heavy body over the sand, her 4 flappers’ being better adapted for motion in the water than on shore. Up the slope, however, she works her way, and see how industriously she removes the sand beneath her, casting it out on either side. Layer after layer she deposits her eggs, arranging them in the most careful manner, and, with her hind paddles, brings the sand over them. The business is accomplished, the spot is covered over, and with a joyful heart the turtle swiftly retires towards the shore, and launches into the deep.” “ There are four different species, which are known by the names of the
green turtle,
the
hawk-bill turtle,
the 
loggerhead-turtle,
and the
trunk-turtle.
The first is considered best as an article of food, in which capacity it is well known to most epicures. It approaches the shores, and enters the bays, inlets, and rivers, early in the month of April, after having spent the winter in the deep waters. It deposits its eggs in convenient places in two different times in May, and once again in June. The first deposit is the largest, and the last the least, the total quantity being at an average about two hundred and forty. The hawk-bill turtle, whose shell is so valuable as an article of commerce, being used for various purposes in the arts, is the next with respect to the quality of its flesh. It resorts to the outer keys only, where it deposits its eggs in two sets, first in July, and again in August, although it ‘ crawls’ the beaches of these keys much earlier in the season, as if to look for a safe place. The average number of its eggs is about three hundred. The loggerhead visits the Tortuga* in April, and lays from that period until late in June three sets of eggs, each set averaging a hundred and seventy. The trunk-turtle, which is sometimes of an enormous size, and which has a pouch like a pelican, reaches the shores latest. The shell and flesh are so soft, that one may push his finger into them, almost as into a lump of butter. This species, therefore, is considered as the least valuable, and indeed is seldom eaten, unless by the Indians, who, ever alert when the turtle season commences, first carry off the eggs, and afterwards catch the turtles themselves. The average number of eggs which it lays in the season, in two sets, may be three hundred and fifty."
“ The loggerhead and the trunk turtles are the least cautious in choosing the places in which to deposit their eggs, whereas the two other species select the wildest and most secluded spots. The green turtle resorts either to the shores of the Maine, between Cape Sable and Cape Florida, or enters Indian, Halifax, and other large rivers or inlets, from which it makes its retreat as speedily as possible, and betakes itself to the open sea. Great numbers, however, are killed by the turtlers and Indians, as well as by various species of carnivorous animals, as cougars, lynxes, bears, and wolves. The hawk-bill, which is still more wary, and is always the most difficult to surprise, keeps to the sea-islands. All the species employ nearly the same method in depositing their eggs in the sand ; and as I have several times observed them in the act, I am enabled to present you with a circumstantial account of it. On first nearing the shores, and mostly on fine calm moonlight nights, the turtle raises her head above the water, being still distant thirty or forty yards from the beach, looks around her, and attentively examines tlle objects on shore. Should she observe nothing likely to disturb her intended operations, she emits a loud hissing sound, by which such of her many enemies as are unaccustomed to it are startled, and so are apt to remove to another place, although unseen by her. Should she hear any noise, or perceive indications of danger, she instantly sinks and goes off to a considerable distance ; but should everything be quiet, she advances slowly towards the beach, crawls over it, her head raised to the full stretch of her neck, and when she has reached a place fitted for her purpose, she gazes all around in silence. Finding ‘ all well,’ she proceeds to form a hole in the sand, which she effects by removing it from
under
her body with her
hind 
flappers, scooping out with so much dexterity that the sides seldom if ever fall in. The sand is raised alternately with each flapper, as with a large ladle, until it has accumulated behind her, when, supporting herself with her head and fore part on the ground fronting her body, she with a spring from each flapper sends the sand around her, scattering it to the distance of several feet. In this manner the hole is dug to the depth of eighteen inches, or sometimes more than two feet. This labour I have seen performed in tbe short period of nine minutes. The eggs are then dropped one by one, and disposed in regular layers to the number of a hundred and fifty, or sometimes nearly two hundred. The whole time spent in this part of the operation may be about twenty minutes. She now scrapes the loose sand back over the eggs, and so levels and smooths the surface, that few persons, on seeing the spot, could imagine anything had been done to it. This accomplished to her mind, she retreats to the water with all possible despatch, leaving the hatching of the eggs to the heat of the sand. When a turtle, a loggerhead, for example, is in the act of dropping her eggs, she will not move although one should go up to her, or even seat himself on her back, for it seems that at this moment she finds it necessary to proceed at all events, as she is unable to intermit her labour. The moment it is finished, however, off she starts ; nor would it then be possible for one, unless he were as strong as a Hercules, to turn her over and secure her.” “ Persons who search for turtles’ eggs are provided with a light stiff cane, or a gun-rod, with which they go along the shores, probing tlle sand near the tracks of these animals, which, however, cannot always be seen, on account of the winds and heavy rains that often obliterate them. The nests are discovered not only by men, but also by beasts of prey, and the eggs are collected or destroyed on the spot in great numbers, as on certain parts of the shores hundreds of turtles are known to deposit their eggs within the space of a
mile. They form a new hole each time they lay, and tlle second is generally dug near the first, as if the animal were quite unconscious of what had befallen it. It will readily be understood, that the numerous eggs seen in a turtle on cutting it up could not be all laid the same season. The whole number deposited by an individual in one summer may amount to four hundred, whereas, if the animal is caught on or near her nest, as I have witnessed, the remaining eggs, all small, without shells, and as it were threaded like so many large beads, exceed three thousand. In an instance where I found that number, the turtle weighed nearly four hundred pounds. The young, soon after being hatched, and when yet scarcely larger than a dollar, scratch their way through their sandy covering, and immediately betake themselves to the water.”
“ The food of the green turtle consists chiefly of marine plants, more especially the grass-wrack
(Zostera marina), 
which they cut near the roots, to procure the most tender and succulent parts. Their feeding grounds, as I have elsewhere said, are easily discovered by floating masses of these plants on the flats, or along the shores to which they resort. The hawk-billed species feeds on sea-weeds, crabs, various kinds of shell-fish and fishes ; the loggerhead mostly on the fish of conch-shells of large size, which they are enabled, by means of their powerful beak, to crush to pieces with apparently as much ease as a man cracks a walnut. One which was brought on board the Marion, and placed near the fluke of one of her anchors, made a deep indentation in that hammered piece of iron that quite surprised me. The trunk-turtle feeds on mollusca, fish, crustacea, sea-urchins, and various marine plants. All the species move through the water with surprising speed ; but the green, and hawkbilled in particular, remind you, by the celerity and ease of their motions, of the progress of birds through the air.”@@1
We shall add a few brief notices, chiefly to connect the preceding observations, and such as follow, with the systematic names bestowed by naturalists.
Our first species is
Chclonia mydas,
commonly called the green turtle, not so much by reason of its external colour, as because its fat, beloved by aldermen, assumes, when the creature is in high condition, a decidedly greenish hue. This tint is by some regarded as derived from its marine pastures, particularly
Zostera marina,
or turtle-grass, of which it is particularly fond. The shield of this species consists of thirteen plates, which do not lie over each other after the manner of tiles. Those of the central or upper line are almost in the form of regular hexagons. The green turtle is a reptile of gigantic proportions, sometimes measuring six or seven feet in length, and weighing seven or eight hundred pounds. Its flesh forms an agreeable and healthy aliment to sea-faring men in most of the seas of the torrid zone, and is still more highly prized by epicurean landsmen. Its eggs are also most excellent as articles of diet- The introduction of turtle into Britain, as an article of luxury, is believed to be of no very distant date.
“ Of the sea-turtles,” says Catcsby, “ the most in request is the green turtle, which is esteemed a most wholesome and delicious food. It receives its name from the fat, which is of a green colour. Sir Hans Sloane informs us, in his History of Jamaica, that forty sloops are employed by the inhabitants of Port Royal, in Jamaica, for the catching them. The markets are there supplied with turtle as ours are with butchers’ meat. The Bahamians carry many of them to Carolina, where they turn to good account ; not because that plentiful country wants provisions, but they are esteemed there as a rarity, and for the delicacy of their flesh. They feed on a kind of grass growing at the bottom of the sea, commonly called turtle-grass. The inhabitants of the Ba-
@@@1
Ornithological Biography,
ii. p. 370.
hama Islands, by often practice, are very expert at catching ' turtles, particularly the green turtle. In April they go in little boats to Cuba and other neighbouring islands, where, in the evening, especially in moonlight nights, they watch the going and returning of the turtle to and from their nests, at which time they turn them on their backs, where they leave them, and proceed on, turning all they meet ; for they cannot get on their feet again when once turned. Some are so large that it requires three men to turn one of them. The way by which the turtle are most commonly taken at the Bahama Islands, is by striking them with a small iron peg of two inches long, put in a socket at the end of a staff of twelve feet long. Two men usually set out for this work in a little light boat or canoe, one to row and gently steer the boat, while the other stands at the head of it with his striker. The turtle are sometimes discovered by their swimming with their head and back out of the water, but they are oftenest discovered lying at the bottom, a fathom or more deep. If a turtle perceives he is discovered, he starts up to make his escape, the men in the boat, pursuing him, endeavour to keep sight of him, which they often lose, and recover again by the turtle putting his nose out of the water to breathe ; thus they pursue him, one paddling or rowing, while the othc-r stands ready with his striker. It is sometimes half an hour before he is tired ; then he sinks at once to the bottom, which gives them an opportunity of striking him, which is by piercing him with an iron peg, which slips out of the socket, but is fastened with a string to the pole. If he is spent and tired by being long pursued, he tamely submits, when struck, to be taken into the boat or hauled ashore. There are men who by diving will get on their backs, and by pressing down their hind parts, and raising the fore part of them by force, bring them to the top of the water, while another slips a noose about their
necks.”@@1
“ The sea-tortoises, or turtles, in general,” continues our author, “ never go on shore but to lay their eggs, which they do in April. They then crawl up from the sea above the flowing of high water, and dig a hole above two feet deep in the sand, into which they drop in one night above an hundred eggs, at which time they are so intent on nature’s work that they regard none that approach them, but will drop their eggs into a hat, if held under them ; but if they are disturbed before they begin to lay, they will forsake the place and seek another. They lay their eggs at three, and sometimes at four different times, there being fourteen days between every time, so that they hatch and creep from their holes into the sea at different times also. When they have laid their complement of eggs, they fill the hole with sand, and leave them to be hatched by the heat of the sun, which is usually performed in about three weeks.”
A still more gigantic species is the loggerhead-turtle (CZl.
earetta,
Gm.), distinguished by fifteen dorsal plates, of which the central are raised into a ridge. The upper portion of the muzzle is bent or beak-shaped, the anterior pair of feet are longer and narrower than in the allied species, and the two nails are persistant and better marked. It inhabits the tropical seas along with the preceding species, but extends into nearer northern latitudes, occurring occasionally in the Mediterranean. In a commercial point of view it is of little or no value, the flesh being coarse and rank, and the shell of no estimation. It furnishes, however, a useful lamp-oil. The loggerhead is said to be a bold and voracious reptile, feeding on shell-fish and other animal products, which it crunches with its strong bony beak. Al-drovandus alludes to one which he saw exhibited alive in his days in Bologna. He held a thick walking-stick towards it, which it immediately bit in two.
The imbricated turtle (CA.
imbricata,
Linn.) is so named on account of the mode in which its dorsal plates, thirteen in number, lap over each other, after the manner of tiles. (SeePlate CCCCXXX. fig. 4.) Its muzzle is more prolonged than in many species, on which account it is sometimes named the hawk’s-bill. Its mandibles are serrated. It measures from two to four feet, and occurs in the tropical seas. The flesh is disagreeable, and occasionally even dangerous, but the eggs are excellent ; and its shield yields the finest quality of that valuable material in the arts called
tortoise-shell.
The lamellæ or plates are thicker, stronger, clearer, and more beautifully mottled than in any other species. The colours consist of an elegant undulation of white, yellow, red, and rich deep brown ; hut the article is too well known to require any detailed description. It is obtained by raising the fine external coating from the bony portion which it covers, by placing fire beneath the shell, which causes the plates to start and become detachable. They vary in thickness with the age and dimensions of the individual, and measure from an eighth to a fourth of an inch in thickness. A large turtle is said to afford about eight pounds weight of tortoise-shell ; and Mr Schoepf states the range to be from five to fifteen or twenty pounds, adding, that unless the animal itself has attained the weight of a hundred and fifty pounds, the shell is of little value.
“ In order,” says Dr Shaw, “ to bring tortoise-shell into the particular form required on the part of the artist, it is steeped in boiling water till it has acquired a proper degree of softness, and immediately afterwards committed to the pressure of a strong metallic mould of the figure required ; and where it is necessary that pieces should be joined, so as to compose a surface of considerable extent, the edges of the respective pieces are first scraped or thinned ; and being laid over each other during their heated state, are committed to a strong press, by which means they are effectually joined or agglutinated. These are the methods also by which the various ornaments of gold, silver, &c. are occasionally affixed to the tortoise-shell.”
“ The Greeks and Romans appear to have been peculiarly partial to this elegant ornamental article, with which it was customary to decorate the doors and pillars of their houses, their beds, &c. In the reign of Augustus this species of luxury seems to have been at its height in Rome.”@@2
“ The Egyptians,” says Mr Bruce, in the supplement to his Travels, “ dealt very largely with the Romans in this elegant article of commerce. Pliny tells us the cutting them for fineering or inlaying was first practised by Carvillus Pollio ; from which we should presume that the Romans were ignorant of the art of separating the Iaminæ by fire placed in tlle inside of the shell when the meat is taken out. For these scales, although they appear perfectly distinct and separate, do yet adhere, and oftener break than split, where the mark of separation may be seen distinctly. Martial says that beds were inlaid with it. Juvenal, and Apuleius in his tenth book, mention that the Indian bed was all over shining with tortoise-shell on the outside, and swelling with stuffing of down within. The immense use made of it in Rome may be guessed at by what we learn from Velleius Paterculus, who says, that when Alexandria was taken by Julius Cæsar, the magazines or warehouses were so full of this article that he proposed to have made it the principal ornament of his triumph, as he did ivory afterwards
1
@@@ One of the most remarkable modes of capturing turtles is that mentioned by Mr Salt. When that gentleman was at Mosam. bique he received a present of a fish of the genus
Echeneis,
which the inhabitants assured him they were in the habit of employing, by securing it by a cord to a boat, after which it would fasten itself by a sucker on the head to the breastplate of the first turtle it met with, and so firm Iy that the latter might be drawn towards the boat and captured.
@@@
2
General Zoology,
iii. 91.
when triumphing for having happily finished tlle African ' war.”
But of all the marine tortoises, the coriaceous turtle (
Ch. coriacea,
Linn.) seems to attain to the greatest size, individuals having been met with measuring eight feet in length, and weighing about a thousand pounds. It differs from the rest of its tribe, as well in its more lengthened form and tapering termination, as in the softer or more leathery texture of its shield, which is not formed into distinct plates, but rather marked all over with small obscure subdivisions or Hneations, which do not interfere with the general smoothness of the surface. There are also three raised longitudinal ridges, which run from above the shoulders to the posterior portion of the shield. (See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 5.) This species inhabits the Mediterranean Sea, has been frequently taken even along the outer coasts of France, and occasionally makes its way to our own island shores. In the month of August 1729 a specimen was taken about three leagues from Nantes, near the mouth of the Loire. It measured above seven feet in length, and is said, when taken, to have uttered a scream so loud and hideous as to have been heard at the distance of a mile. Its mouth “ foamed with rage, and exhaled a noisome vapour.” It no doubt, and very naturally, objected to being lifted into a stinking slimy boat, from its own beautiful translucent sea. In the year 1778 a specimen was captured off the coast of Languedoc, which measured seven feet five inches; and, in 1756, another was taken on the Cornwall coast, which, Dr Borlase says, “ measured six feet nine inches from the tip of the nose to the end of the shell, and ten feet four inches from the extremities of the fore-tins extended, and was adjudged to weigh eight hundred pounds.” According to Lacepède, the coriaceous turtle is the species with which the Greeks were best acquainted, and he supposes it to have been particularly used in the formation of the ancient harp or lyre, which was originally constructed by attaching strings or wires to the carapace of one of these marine reptiles. “ We may add,” says Dr Shaw, “ that the ribs or prominences on the back of the shell bcar an obscure resemblance to the strings of a harp, and may have suggested the name of luth or lyre, by which it is called among the French, exclusive of the use to which the shell was anciently applied.” This turtle is reputed to be extremely fat, and it is eaten by the Carthusians, although its flesh is coarse and bad.
GENusCHELYsj Dumeril. Wide-mouthed turtles. This little group resembles the preceding genus Emys in the feet and claws. The carapace is much too small to admit of the withdrawal of the head and limbs, which are proportionally large. The muzzle is prolonged into a little trunk, but the most marked and peculiar character consists in the deeply cleft transverse gape, which is not armed with corneous mandibles, as in the other Chelonians, but rather resembles that of the Batrachian genus
Pipa.
The best known and most noted species is the matamata
( T. fimbria,
Gm.), an animal of a very singular and rather repulsive aspect, first described by M. Bruguiere.@@1 It measures about a foot and a half in length. Its carapace is oval, with raised pyramidal plates pointing backwards. The neck and other parts of the body are furnished with peculiar projecting fringes, or wart-like appendages. This reptile is native to Guiana, and was once common in Cayenne ; but its numbers were long ago much thinned by the fishermen, who prize it as an excellent and nutritious food. It feeds on aquatic plants, and is said to wander by night to
some distance from the banks in search of pasture. The specimen described by M. Bruguiere was brought to him alive, and was sustained for some time on bread and herbs. It afterwards laid five or six eggs, one of which produced a young turtle.
Genus Trionyx, Geoff. Softturtles. Thesehave no plates or scales, but merely a soft skin enveloping their carapace and plastron, neither of which are completely supported by the bones, the ribs not reaching to the margins of the shield, nor being united to each other except by a portion of their length, and the parts analogous to the sternal ribs being replaced by simple cartilage, and the sternal pieces, partly toothed as in the marine species, by no means filling up the whole of the under surface. The feet, as in the fresh-water tortoises, are palmated though not elongated, and only three of the toes are furnished with nails. The corneous portion of the beak is clothed externally with fleshy lips, and the snout is prolonged. The tail is short. The species of this genus dwell in fresh waters, and the flexible margins of their carapace are of use ∙in swimming.
The Egyptian species or tyrse, the
soft turtle
of the Nile
(Test, triungws,
Forskal,
Tr. Ægyptiacus,
Geoff), sometimes attains the length of three feet. Its shield is flattish, and of a green colour, spotted with white. This reptile devours young crocodiles the moment they are hatched, and, according to Sonnini, is more serviceable in this way than even the ichneumon.
An American species (
Tr. ferοx,
Gmel.) inhabits the rivers of the new world, from Guiana as far north as the southern parts of the United States. It lies concealed in reeds and rushes, seizes on birds and reptiles, preying also on young caymans, and being in turn frequently devoured by the elder members of that powerful family. It is itself sought after as an article of food even by the human race, its flesh being by some esteemed equal to that of the green turtle. This species has been described as possessing considerable vigour and swiftness in its motions, and as springing forward when attacked to meet its assailant with fierceness and alacrity. It measures about a foot and a half in length, and seems to have been first described by Dr Garden in his correspondence with Pennant.@@2
Order II—SAURIA. SAURIAN REPTILES.
In this order the heart is composed, as among the Che-lonians, of two auricles and a ventricle, the latter being sometimes divided by imperfect partitions. The ribs are moveable, partly attached to the sternum, and are capable of being raised and depressed for the purposes of respiration. The lungs extend more or less towards the hinder portion of the body, and frequently enter far into the lower part of the abdomen. Those in which the lungs are large possess the singular faculty of changing the colour of their skin, according as they are excited by their wants or passions. The eggs are enveloped by a more or less consistent covering, and the young are born in the perfect state, that is, they merely increase in size, without undergoing metamorphosis. The mouth is always armed with teeth ; and the toes are furnished with nails, with very few exceptions. The skin is clothed with scales, or with little scaly granules. All the species have a tail, varying in length in the different kinds, but almost always thick at the base. The majority have four legs, although a few have only a single pair.
1
@@@
Journal d' Hist. Nat.
1792.
@@@2
Phil. Trans,
lxi. 266. The chief works on the Chelonian reptiles are the following. J. G. Walbaum,
Chelonographia oder Ites-Chreibung e
∖
niger Schildkrorten,
1782. J. G. Schneider,
AUgcmeine Naturgcschichte der Schildkrorteni nebst einen Systematitchcn berzeieh-*issc dcr einzelnen arien,
1783. J. D. Schoepf,
Historia Testudinum iconibus illustrata.
A. F. Schweigger,
Monoffraphia Testuatnum
(in the Archives de Kcenigsberg for 1812). Thomas Bell, F. lt. S.,
Monograph of the Testudinata.
J. Spix, ⅛eriex
Novœ Testudiuum et Ranarum quai in itinere, &c.,
1824. The various species are also enumerated by Mr Gray in his
Synopsis Heptilinim,
The Saurian order of reptiles was included by Linnæus under two genera, Dhaco and Lacerta. The latter has been greatly subdivided, in accordance with the number of the feet, the form of the tongue, tail, and scales ; and the formation of several separate families has resulted from the consideration of these important features. None of the saurian reptiles are venomous, although the bite of several of the larger kinds is to be avoided rather than otherwise. They all appear to be what may be called carnivorous ; that is, they feed on living prey. Many assume the torpid state during the colder seasons of the year ; but in their more active condition they affect, according to the species, a great diversity of situation ; some haunting obscure and humid places, others rejoicing in a dry and sandy soil, exposed to the influence of the most radiant sun. Several are aquatic ; while many climb trees, or, avoiding “ leafy umbrage,” seek the surface of exposed and barren rocks. Their form and outward adornment are as varied as their habits. Some are remarkable for beauty of shape and brilliancy of colour, while others present a repulsive aspect and a lurid hue. Many are extremely small, entirely innocent, and naturally familiar and confiding in their mode of life ; others are of gigantic size, and distrustful and dangerous in their disposition. How great the"difference between the beautiful, bright-eyed lizard, which suns itself beside a cottage window, and the huge cayman of America, stretched like a blackened log along the desolate shore of some forsaken river !
FAMILYI—CROCODILIDÆ. CROCODILES IN GENERAL.
The
Crocodilidw
take the first place in the Saurian order, a distinction to which they are well entitled from their great magnitude and strength, and a ferocity which has obtained for them the appellation of the tyrants of the fresh waters, both in the old and new world. They often attain the size of ten and twelve feet, frequently that of fifteen and twenty, and, more rarely, even that of twenty-five and thirty. Inhabiting the margins of the mighty streams of tropical climates, they are the terror of all who approach them ; they prey upon every animal which comes within their reach ; and man himself is not free from their attacks, for instances are by no means rare, both in ancient and modern times, of their suddenly seizing upon human beings, and carrying them off to their watery haunts. Hence these formidable animals are never witnessed, especially in temperate climates, but wi th the deepest interest. In the year 58 before the common era, the edile Scaurus exhibited at Rome five crocodiles from the Nile ; on another occasion, Strabo mentions that the inhabitants of Denderah brought many to the great capital of the world ; but the most astonishing spectacle of this sort ever witnessed was when the Emperor Augustus caused the Flavinian Circus to be filled with water, and there displayed thirty-six crocodiles, which were killed by an equal number of men accustomed to fight with these monsters. Popular curiosity continues unabated ; and the intimate connection of the creatures in question with geological investigations has more recently conferred upon them a very different but not less important interest.
The Crocodilidæ form an exceedingly natural group, closely associated by many common characters, of which the following are the most striking. They all attain a great size.
Their tail is compressed laterally. The fore-feet have five toes ; the hind four, the three internal of which are furnished with nails, but all of them are more or less united by membranes. There is a single row of teeth in each jaw. The tongue is fleshy, flat, and attached by nearly the whole of its margin, a circumstance which led the ancients to believe that crocodiles were destitute of this member. The back and tail are covered with great scales or plates, which are often pointed in their centre ; the scales on the abdomen are not so thick and strong.
The nostrils of these amphibious creatures open at the end of their snout by two small apertures, which shut with valves. The lower jaw is prolonged behind the cranium, which gives the appearance of motion to the upper jaw when the mouth is opened, an idea entertained by thc ancients.@@1 Their external ears are shut at will by two fleshy lips ; their eye has three eyelids, two horizontal, like our own, and the third, a membrana nictitans, capable of being drawn from within outwards over the whole front of the globe. Beneath the lower jaw, on either side, is a gland, whose duct opens by a small slit a little within the lower edge of the jaw ; it secretes an unctuous matter of a strong musky smell, and is supposed by Mr Bell
(Phil. Trans. 
1827) to be a bait for attracting fish towards the sides of the mouth. This gland, with others of a like nature situated elsewhere, confers a smell which pervades the whole animal. The vertebra are to the number of sixty ; seven are cervical, and these are so connected with each other by bony processes that they impede lateral movements, so that it is difficult for the animal to change its direction; and hence, when a person is pursued, he may easily escape by turning. Of all the Saurians, they are the only ones which are destitute of clavicles. Besides the ordinary supply of ribs, they have some which protect the abdomen without ascending to the spine. Their lungs do not descend into the abdomen, as in other reptiles of their order ; and this, with their heart of three cavities, where the blood from the lungs does not mix with that from the body so freely as in the rest of the Reptilia, associates them somewhat nearer to warmblooded animals.
It would be interesting, did space permit, to enlarge upon these physiological details. It is not a little curious, that in the animals belonging to this group, two openings are found, leading from the surface to the internal cavity of the abdomen, a structure similar to that which prevails in a few animals further down the scale. M. Geoffroy St Hilaire supposes that the superior energy of the crocodile in water is due to this penetration of that fluid, and the consequent conversion of the peritoneum into an additional respiratory surface. Another singular circumstance is, that these animals, as in some higher up the scale, are in the habit of swallowing great stones. An officer in the Colombian navy, who mentions this, tells us, that being somewhat incredulous on the point, he was satisfied of the fact by Bolivar, who, in order to convince him, shot several alligators with his rifle, and in the stomachs of all of them were found stones varying in weight according to the size of the animal. The largest killed was about seventeen feet in length, and had within him a stone weighing from sixty to seventy pounds. U pon their dispositions and habits we cannot greatly dilate.
In relation to the geographical distribution of the Crocodilidæ, we may here remark, that they are entirely foreign to Europe, and do not occur in New Holland, but are else
1
@@@ The peculiar structure of the jaws, and the nature of their movement, among these reptiles, have formed the subject of frequent argument. The fact, or rather the knowledge of it, although controverted by Perrault and Duverney, is as old as the time of Herodotus ; and Aristotle asserts that they can move both jaws :
κuουμιvΛ
∣
s svτω
ta,,
e
∣
uγαvΛη.
it Enfin, nous réviendrons encore sur la circonstance, tout-k-fait particulière, qui permet à la mâchoire supérieure, ou plutôt à toute la masse supérieure de la tête, de s’élever en bascule, et de se mouvoir ainsi sur la mâchoire inferieure quand celle-ci repose sur le terrain ou sur un plan fixé.”
(Erpitologit Giniralt,
iii. 26.) See also
Annales du Mus.
ii. 38.
where extensively spread over various regions of the earth. The caymans are peculiar to America, the crocodiles, properly so called, are common to both worlds, and the gavials have hitherto been found only in Continental India. The following table will show the distribution of the family, and the amount of species, in all the great divisions of our globe ;
Asia. and’ktrici Africa. America. Doubtful.
Cayman..........O    0    0    
5    
0
Crocodile........2    112    2
Gavial............1    0    0    0    0
Total species ...3    1    1    7    2=14
Genus Gavialis, Cuv. and Geoff. We begin with the very limited genus Gavial, which, so far as known, is confined to the old world, if not to the Asiatic continent. The first description of one of these animals was given by our celebrated countryman Edwards.@@
1 Count Lacepède introduced the native name Gavial into our systematic works. The most recent researches of Cuvier have scarcely succeeded in determining whether there is more than one living species ; there appear, however, to be several fossil, and hence additional interest is excited.
In this genus the snout is slender, and very much prolonged ; the teeth are nearly uniform and alike ; the fourth of the under jaw, when the mouth is closed, locks not into a foramen in the upper jaw, but into a lateral groove only ; the hind feet are denticulated on the outer margin, and palmated to the extremity of the toes ; and there is a deep depression behind the eye.
G. Iongirostris,
Cuv. ;
Crocodilus Iongirostris,
Schn. ;
Lacerta Gangeticus,
Gmel.
The Great Gavial.
The muzzle of this species is almost cylindrical, and somewhat bent at its *xtremity ; its head is singularly broad, especially towards the back part ; the length of its muzzle to that of its body is as one to seven and a half. Its dental formulary is
∣
¾ = 106. Its scales, as in all its congeners, supply excellent specific characters. This animal appears to attain a great size. Baron Cuvier received from Mr Wallich a specimen of an individual captured near Calcutta, which was seventeen feet long ; and from a fragment in the Paris museum, it is calculated it must sometimes attain to nearly double that size. Notwithstanding its great bulk, the very slender form of its muzzle renders it much less formidable than the other and more numerous genus (Crocodilus), which also frequents the Ganges. It feeds wholly upon fish, and is not regarded as dangerous to man, a fact confirmatory of Ælian’s observation, that “ there are two kinds of crocodiles in the Ganges, the one innocent, the other cruel.” Though it has not hitherto been observed in other Asiatic rivers, it may reasonably be supposed to exist elsewhere than in the Ganges.
G. tenuirostris.
Though the materials possessed by Baron Cuvier did not enable him to come to a definitive conclusion regarding the existence of the
small gavial,
yet upon the whole he favoured its claims to being something more than the young of the preceding species ; the existence of some nearly allied fossil kinds favouring the conclusion. There is no difference in the shape and arrangement of the teeth or scales ; and the greater narrowness of the upper and back part of the head, and of the orbital foramina, are the only specific differences supplied. Its average size has not been ascertained. Like the preceding, it frequents the Ganges.
Genus Crocodilus, Cuv. The generic characters of the
true crocodiles
are sufficiently distinct. They do not possess the slender beak of the gavials ; the head is oblong,
and not half as broad as it is long ; the muzzle is oblong and depressed ; the teeth, which are somewhat unequal in their dimensions, are fifteen on each side in the lower jaw, and nineteen in the. upper ; the fourth, which are the longest, pass into furrows, and are not lodged in distinct foramina of the upper jaw ; the hind feet have usually a denticulated crest at their outer margin ; and the interval of their toes, at all events the external ones, are palmated. There is a deep hollow behind each eye.
Different species of crocodile are found in the hot regions of Asia, Africa, and America. Many bear a very close resemblance to each other, but about eight seem to be satisfactorily established. These are, the species called
charnses,
or 
tem such,—
the common crocodile of the Nile ; the
biporcatus, 
or double crested ; the
acutus, rhombifer, galeatus,
and
cataphractus
(Cuv.); to which are to be added the
Gravesii 
and
Journei
(of Bory de St Vincent). We begin with that which has been longest, and perhaps is best known, the famous crocodile of the Nile.
C. vulgaris,
Cuv. ;
Temsach
of the modern Egyptians ;
Laeerta crocodilus,
Linn. The length of the head of this species is double that of the breadth ; the snout is very ragged and unequal, especially in the old ; its eyes are more asunder than in other species. Without entering mto minute details of the number and arrangement of the scales on the neck, back, tail, &c. we shall only state, that six rows of nearly equal-sized plates run all along the back, giving it the appearance of mosaic. The colour is a bronzed green, speckled with brown ; underneath it is a yellowish-green.
These animals sometimes attain the enormous size of thirty feet ; “ and if we except,” says Lacepède, “ the elephant, the hippopotamus, some cetacea, and a few enormous serpents, they have no equal in nature.” The female lays her eggs twice or thrice in the year, but only during the hot weather, and deposits them in the sand, where they are hatched by the sun. They amount to about twenty ; and are said to be hatched after fifteen or twenty days. They are about twice the size of the goose’s egg, and it is stated that the mother takes no charge whatever of them. Indeed we believe that this maternal carelessness is characteristic of the reptile race.
This species is frequently designated the crocodile of the Nile, a name far from happy,—because other species may inhabit its waters, and the one in question may be more common elsewhere. There seems, indeed, to be no doubt that this same animal abounds in the Senegal and other rivers of Western Africa ; probably even in all the rivers of that continent, and certainly in those of Madagascar. Formerly it used to frequent the Nile as far down as the Delta, but now we must ascend to its less frequented portions before it is encountered. It was probably in reference to an individual of this species that Mungo Park relates the fact, that one of his guides across the river Gambia was suddenly seized by a crocodile and pulled under water. The negroes, however, are so familiar with these creatures, and so skilful in meeting their attacks, that they generally escape. On this occasion the negro thrust his fingers in the crocodile’s eyes with so much violence that it quitted its hold ; but seizing him again, he resorted to the same expedient, and with more success, as it again released him, appeared stupified, and swam down the river. Although its flesh has a strong musky smell, yet the inhabitants of the districts wherein it abounds frequently attach a high value to it, as, according to the testimony of Herodotus, did also some of tlle ancient Egyptians. A common method employed by the Africans for destroying the crocodile is to thrust the arm, well defended with ox-hides, down its throat, and then to plunge a dagger into its vitals. The European
1
@@@
Phil. Trans.
1756.
traveller will probably prefer avoiding such a close encounter.
Although we have hitherto treated of the common crocodile as one and distinct, yet it seems beyond doubt, that in the wide habitat assigned to it, many
varieties
at least exist. Cuvier remarks, that from the Senegal to the Ganges, and even beyond it, there are crocodiles very like the common one, which have the muzzle somewhat longer or narrower, and have slight differences in the scales of their neck and back, but which it is very difficult to distribute into distinct species. He himself was not able to establish any ; nor could he with satisfaction adopt the four proposed by his eminent colleague M. Geoffroy, viz. C.
suchus, marginatus, lacunosus,
and
complαnatus.@@
1 Of these, by far the most famous is the
suchus,
which the last-named naturalist considers identical with the
sacred crocodile
of the ancient Egyptians. His theory is, that there existed a species of a small size, having a narrow snout, and a disposition which was wholly gentle and inoffensive, which affected the margin of the river, and was thus the precursor of its inundations ; and that it was to this species that the Egyptians rendered divine honours. The opposing view, advocated by Cuvier, is that the favoured crocodile did not belong to any one species or variety more than another, and, far from being less, was even more ferocious ; but that it was the custom of the priesthood to entertain, not a host of crocodiles, but only one, or a few, of any given variety, under the name of 
souchis,
as the idol of a divinity who was represented by a crocodile’s head ; and that it was to this individual especially that divine honours were paid, in the same way as 
apis
was the name of the sacred ox at Memphis, and
mnevis 
at Heliopolis. This favoured animal was always nourished and adorned with extreme splendour, and after its death was buried in the subterranean cells of the Labyrinth ; whilst throughout the district where these honours were paid, the whole race of crocodiles were respected and preserved. Cuvier assigns the following among other reasons for the accuracy of his views, which we think conclusive :
First,
the crania of the buried and embalmed crocodiles do not belong to any one variety, but to all of them ; and,
2dly,
there is the strongest historical proof that the crocodiles in those districts where they were worshipped, far from being less savage, were even more so than in others, because from their impunity they became more bold. Thus Ælian reports, that in the district of Tyntyri-tcs, whcre they unsparingly destroyed the crocodiles, the inhabitants could bathe and swim in the river securely, whilst at Arsinoe they could not safely walk, far less draw water from the river’s banks. The evidence that individuals, when taken young, may be completely tamed, is equally satisfactory. Thus Bruce relates, that on the western shores of Africa, the negroes bring up crocodiles, which become so gentle as to let children play with them and ride upon their backs ; a fact which satisfactorily corroborates the accounts of those religious processions, &c. in which the sacred crocodile performed so essential and conspicuous a part.
C.
biporcatus,
Cuv. Dum ;
C. porosus,
Schn.
Double crested crocodile.
This species is the common crocodile of India and its archipelago, frequenting the Ganges and other great rivers which empty themselves into the ocean, as also those of Corca and China, Ceylon, Java, Timor, &c. It has a strong resemblance to the Egyptian species ; but the cervical scales are differently arranged, and the dorsal are smaller, more numerous, and differently shaped. (See Plate CCCCXXX. fig. 6.) The appearance of the pores between the scales is
much more conspicuous than in the other species, and grows with their growth. Its colour is brownish, with black bands on the back, and spots on the side. In the Paris museum there is one seventeen feet long, from the Ganges. In the account of Macassar, or Celebes, we read, that in the great river of that island, there are crocodiles so ferocious that they do not confine themselves to making war on fish, but assemble in troops to watch the boats, and endeavour to overturn them, that they may devour those who are in them. It is the opinion in Java that these animals do not devour their prey on capturing it ; but bury it for a time in the mud, that it may decay. This remark is so generally made of other species in different parts of the world, that it would appear to bc a prevailing habit among them.
C.
acutus,
Cuv. Dum.
The slender-snouted crocodile,
or
crocodile of St Domingo.
This slender-snouted crocodile is extremely common in the island of St Domingo, as well as in Martinique, and the northern parts of South America. Its most remarkable specific characters are the length of the muzzle, which is bulged at its base ; and the scales of the back are differently disposed from those of the preceding. The upper part of the body is of a deep green colour, Spotted and marbled with black ; the under part is pale green. Dr Descourtils states that this animal is more flexible than is usually supposed, for it can introduce the extremity of its tail into its mouth. On the same respectable authority we learn that the males are not so numerous as the females ; that they fight furiously at the season of reproduction ; that the males are fit for generation at the age of ten, and the females at that of eight or nine, their fecundity not lasting more than four or five years,—a statement which may well be questioned. The eggs are deposited in' spring, and hatched in a month. On issuing, the young are only nine or ten inches long ; their growth continues for about twenty years, and some are as long as sixteen feet. At the time of the escape of the young, the female comes to scrape away the earth and let them out. She conducts, defends, and feeds them, by disgorging her own food for about three months, a space of time during which the male would seek to devour them.
C. rhombifer,
Cuv. Dum.
Lozenge-scaled crocodile.
The habitat of this species has been ascertained only of late years. It occurs in the island of Cuba, and probably inhabits the other Antilles. Its specific characters are well marked. Its chanfrin is extremely prominent, forming a semicircle, whilst in the common crocodile it is only a gentle elevation ; and
tlle
extremities are clad with much stronger and more projecting scales than in the other species. Its ground colour is green, bespeckled with small and very distinct brown spots.
C. galeatus,
Cuv. Dum.
Helrneted crocodile.
The helmeted crocodile has been hitherto found only in Siam, and is remarkable for two bony triangular crests implanted, the one behind, the other on the middle line of the head. It has been taken ten feet long.
C. biscutatus
is now regarded as an anomalous variety of
C. acutus. C. cataphractus,
the
ηιirassed crocodile,
may be witnessed in the museum of the London Royal College of Surgeons, and it is very different, according to Cuvier, from all the others described. The source from whence it was obtained is unknown.@@2 Its muzzle is longer and narrower than that of the St Domingo crocodile, whose peculiar chanfrin it wants. It is most easily distinguished by the armour on its neck ; there are first two oval plates, then a row of four, then scaly bands common to the neck and back, which together form a cuirass as strong as that of any of the gavials or alligators.
@@@1 These seem all to be now regarded as varieties of the common Egyptian crocodile,—C.
νulgaCu,
Cuv. and Dum. See
Erpétologie Gtatrale,
iii. 104.
@@@2 A s
∣
)ecimen of a young individual was presented to the Paris museum as having been obtained from “ Ie grand Galbac, rivière qui coule près de Sierra de Leone.”
There still remain two other true crocodiles, described by M. Graves,@@1 and which he regards as new ; the
C. Gra-vesii
and
Jtnirnei
of Bory de St Vincent. Both of them are in the Bordeaux museum. The habitat of the former is believed to be the Congo, and of the latter America. All the bones of the
Gravesii
are as if pierced with small holes, a character they possess in common with some of the alligators. Its head is of the shape of a slender isosceles triangle ; the extremity of the snout is rounded, and its surface covered with great obtuse tubercles, having no regular arrangement. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh teeth of the lower jaw are received into a furrow, as well as the fourth. The colour of the upper part is a dark deep brown, that of the lower a dull yellow. The snout of the
Journei 
is very slender, approaching to that of the gavials ; it is convex as well as long, and near its extremity is almost cylindrical. The back of this species is of a deep yellowish green ; the flanks are yellowish, and the belly yellow.
Genus Alligator, Cuv. The alligators are by far the most common representatives of this group in the new world ; although, as we have already seen, there are true crocodiles in St Domingo, and probably in many other localities. In most parts of America they are known by the title of cayman, a name apparently of African origin, and applied by the negroes, not to the alligators only, but indifferently to every species of the group. It does not seem to be yet ascertained whether any true caymans are found in the old world. Adanson thought he discovered one in the Senegal ; M. de Beauvais states that he saw one in Guinea ; and Cuvier thinks it most probable that they have their representatives in our hemisphere. They possess all the power and ferocity of the true crocodiles, and in many places are found in astonishing numbers.
The head of the alligators is not so oblong as that of the true crocodiles ; the snout is broad and obtuse ; the teeth are somewhat unequal, the number ranging from nineteen to twenty-two on each side of each jaw ; the fourth of the under jaw is received, not into a lateral furrow of the upper one, but into a distinct foramen. Their feet are only semi-palmated, and are not denticulated.
A. lucius,
Cuv.;
Croc- Cuvieri,
Leach.
Pike-muzzled alligator.
This is peculiarly the alligator of the southern parts of North America, including Carolina, the Floridas, and Louisiana. In the Mississippi it ascends as far as the thirty-second degree north, a higher latitude than any species reaches in the old world. In these countries they frequent the muddy banks, and quite bury themselves in the cold season, falling into a lethargic state before the setting in of the frost.@@2 This sleep is so profound that they may be almost cut to pieces without manifesting any sign of life ; when the warm weather returns, they are soon roused into activity. According to Bosc, their eggs are white, and not larger than those of the turkey. They are good eating, and are prized by the natives, though they partake of the musky smell of tlle animal. As soon as they escape, the young betake themselves to the water ; but the vast majority become the prey of turtles, fish, and amphibious animals, not excluding the older of their own species. During the first year they feed upon insects and very young fish. Bosc states that he preserved a brood of fifteen. They ate only living insects ; and never captured them except when moving, upon which they darted at them with great velocity. They appeared quite gentle when he took them in his hand. At the end of the first year they are still very feeble creatures; during the second they acquire their formidable teeth. The duration of their existence is not precisely ascertained, but is supposed to equal that of man. They never cast their skin ; and on acquiring their full size, few animals can injure them. They can fast long. They live on frogs, fish, aquatic birds, on dogs, hogs, cattle, and any animal they can catch ; when these go to the river to drink, they seize them by the muzzle or leg, and draw them into the water to drown them. “ I used often,” adds the traveller last named, “ to amuse myself, bringing them from their retreats by making my dog bark. Sometimes I used to advance and strike them with my stick, at which they were little disturbed. They never thought of attacking me, and deliberately retired when they found their hunting promised no success.” Though slow on land, they swim with great velocity. In Carolina they make deep burrows, where they pass the whole winter, and even the entire day in summer. Though usually met with on the edges of rivers and lakes, they are sometimes also found in ponds in woods. Bosc often attempted to take them with every kind of strong snare ; but these were invariably broken to pieces. They are commonly taken with a strong hook bated with a bird or small quadruped, and connected by a chain to a tree. The Indians eat the tail only. At the time of reproduction they fight furiously with each other, and bellow as loud as bulls. They avoid the salt water and proximity to the sea, because they are there exposed to the attacks of sharks and the great turtle. In very warm districts in the Floridas, the rivers are sometimes quite crowded with them, so that they almost interrupt the navigation.
The specific characters of the pike-headed alligator are a flat snout, the sides of which are nearly parallel, uniting in front in a regular curve. There are eighteen transverse rows of scales on the back. The colour above is a deep greenish brown, beneath white tinged with green, and the flanks are regularly striated with the two colours. Catesby has seen them fourteen feet long. Its hide, except at particular spots, resists a musket ball ; it is most vulnerable at the inferior part of the belly, and round the eye.
The great alligator of North America certainly forms one of the most remarkable features in the zoology of the United States. Whatever may be said of the African or South American species, this huge reptile is usually neither shy nor dangerous. Its ordinary motion on land is slow and sluggish, a kind of laboured crawling, which leaves the track of a lengthened trail upon the mud, like the keel of a small vessel. When met with at any distance from the water, it immediately squats, that is, lies as flat as it can, with its nose upon the ground, and staring around with rolling eyes. “ Should a man approach them,” says that accurate and admirable describer Audubon, “ they do not attempt either to make away or attack, but merely raise their body from the ground for an instant, swelling themselves, and issuing a dull blowing sound, not unlike that of a blacksmith’s bellows. Not the least danger need be apprehended ; you either kill them with ease, or leave them.” As if conscious of their incapacity of self-defence, they seldom travel except during the night, being then less subject to disturbance, besides “ having a better chance to surprise a litter of pigs, or of land-tortoises, for prey.” “ In Louisiana,’’ Mr Audubon observes, “ all our lagoons, bayous, creeks, ponds, lakes, and rivers, are well stocked with them ; they are found wherever there is a sufficient quantity of water to hide them, or to furnish them with food ; and they continue thus in great numbers as high as the mouth of the Arkansas river, extending east to North Carolina, and as far west as I have penetrated. On the Red River, before it was navigated by steam-vessels, they were so extremely abundant, that to see hundreds at a sight along the shores, or on the immense rafts of floating or stranded timber, was
1
@@@
Ann. Gin, des Seien. Physiques,
t. ii. p. 313.
@@@2 An individual, however, was observed by Messrs Dunbar and Hunter ⅛ latitude 32}° north, in the month of December, while the weather was very cold.
quite a common occurrence, the smaller on the backs of the larger, groaning, and uttering their bellowing noise, like thousands of irritated bulls about to meet in fight ;@@1 but all so careless of man, that unless shot at or positively disturbed, they remained motionless, suffering boats or canoes to pass within a few yards of them without noticing them in the least. The shores are yet trampled by them in such a manner that their large tracks are seen as plentiful as those of sheep in a fold.” It was in the Red River, it seems, that so many thousands of these reptiles were killed, while a mania prevailed for wearing boots and shoes made of
crocodile leather.
This had fairly become an article of trade, many of the squatters following for a time no other business. But this leather, though handsome and pliant, exhibiting all the regular lozenges of the scales, and capable of receiving the highest polish, is not sufficiently firm or close-grained to prevent for any length of time the ingress of damp or moisture.
The power of this alligator lies chiefly in his jaws and tail. The latter is admirably adapted to serve as an ally to the former, because when curved into a semicircle it sweeps everything towards the enormous mouth. “ Woe be to him who goes within the reach of this tremendous instrument ; for, no matter how strong or muscular, if human, he must suffer greatly if he escapes with life. The monster, as he strikes, forces all objects within the circle towards his jaws, which, as the tail makes a motion, are open to their full stretch, thrown a little sidewise to receive the object, and, like battering-rams, to bruise it Shockinglyin a moment. The alligator, when searching after prey in the water, or at its edge, swims so slowly towards it as not to ruffle the water. It approaches the object sidewise, body and bead all concealed, till sure of his stroke ; then, with a tremendous blow, as quick as thought, the object is secured.” When these giant reptiles are engaged in fishing, the flapping of their tails upon the water may be heard at half a mile. In the vicinity of Bayou Creek, on the Mississippi, there are extensive shallow lakes and marshes, yearly overflowed by the dreadful flooding of that mighty river, and stored with myriads of fish of many different kinds—trouts, white perch, cat-fish, alligatorgars or devil-fish. Thither, in the heats of early autumn, after a burning summer sun has exhaled a quantity of water, the squatter, planter, hunter, all proceed in search of sport. The lakes are then not more than two feet deep, with a fine sandy bottom, and much grassy vegetation bearing seeds, keenly sought for by vast multitudes of water-fowl. In each lake is a deeper spot, called the Alligator Hole, because dug and dwelt in by these reptiles. There they may be seen in numbers lying close together. “ The fish that are already dying by thousands, through the insufferable heat and stench of the water, and the wounds of the different winged enemies constantly in pursuit of them, resort to the alligator’s hole to receive refreshment, with a hope of finding security also, and follow down the little currents flowing through the connecting sluices ; but no ! for as the water recedes in the lake, they are here confined. The alligators thrash them and devour them whenever they feel hungry ; while the wood-ibis destroys all that make towards the shore. The hunter, anxious to prove the value of his rifle, marks one of the eyes of the largest alligator, and as the hair-trigger is touched, the alligator dies. Should the ball strike one inch astray from
the eye, the animal flounces, rolls over and over, beating furiously with his tail around him, frightening all his companions, who sink immediately ; while the fishes, like blades of burnished metal, leap in all directions out of the water, so terrified are they at this uproar. Another and another receives the shot in the eye, and expires ; yet those that do not feel the fatal bullet pay no attention to the death of their companions till the hunter approaches very close, when they hide themselves for a few moments by sinking backwards.” So disinclined are they to attack the human race, that Mr Audubon and his companions have waded waist-deep among hundreds of them. The cattle-drivers may be often seen beating them away with sticks before crossing with their beasts, for they will readily attack cattle, and swim after such animals as dogs, deer, and even horses.
As soon as the cool autumnal air gives warning of the approach of frosty weather, alligators leave the lakes to seek for winter quarters, by burrowing beneath the roots of trees, or covering themselves with earth. They speedily become inactive ; and to sit and ride on one, according to Mr Audubon, who never rows in the same boat with Squire Waterton, would now be no more difficult than for a child to mount a rocking horse. The negroes kill them by separating, at a single blow, the tail from the body. They are afterwards cut into large pieces, and boiled in a good quantity of water, from the surface of which the fat is collected in large ladles. A single man often kills above a dozen alligators in an evening, prepares his fire in the woods, and, by morning, the oil is rendered. This oil is used for greasing the machinery of steam-engines and cotton-mills ; and formerly, when Indigo was made in Louisiana, it served (we know not how) to assuage the overflowing of the boiling juice, when a ladleful was thrown into the caldron. We would have deemed the remedy more dangerous than the disease. These reptiles emit a strong odour, and a large one may be discovered by it at a distance of sixty yards. The smell is musky, and, when strong, is insupportable. It is not, however, perceptible when they are in the water, “ although I have,” says Mr Audubon, “ been so close to them while fishing, as to throw the cork of my line upon their heads to tease them.” He adds, that he has regularly found in their interior round masses of a hard substance resembling petrified wood. He has broken these with a hammer, and found them brittle, and as hard as stones, which they outwardly resemble. “ And as neither our lakes nor rivers in the portion of the country I have hunted them in, afford even a pebble as large as a common egg, I have not been able to conceive how they are procured by the animals if positively stones, or (if not) by what power wood can become stone in their stomachs.” They are probably concretions formed of indigestible animal substances, or may themselves assist digestion.@@2 Mr Audubon has often amused himself, when fishing where alligators abounded, by throwing an inflated bladder towards the one next him in the water. It makes Ibr it at once, flapping it towards its mouth, and trying to seize it, but in vain. The light inflation floats aside, and in a few minutes many more of these huge creatures are seen attempting to master the delusive bladder, , ∙ putting one in mind of a crowd of boys running after a foot-ball.” A black bottle is also sometimes thrown among them, tightly corked ; but some one, more active than the rest, will seize it greedily, and the crunched
@@@1 The majority of authors who have written of crocodiles from personal observation, agree regarding the frequent cries of the younger individuals, but seem to consider the older ones as seldom giving utterance to their feelings in that way. “ Au contraire,” says Mumboldt, “ le rugissement du crocodile adulte doit être très rare, car avant vécu pendant plusieurs années ou en couchant à l’air libre sur les bords de PGrdnoque1 nous avons été presque toutes les nuits entourés des crocodiles, nous n'avons jamais entendu la voix de ces sauriens à taille gigantesque ”
(Recueil d'Obseiv. de Zoologie,
torn, i )
@@@2 “Une particularité' notable, mais qui parait assez constante chez les crocodiles, puisque tous les auteurs qui en ont fait l’anatomie en ont fait mention, c’est qu’on trouve dans leur estomac des cailloux de differentes grosseurs, qui semblent devoir servir à la trituration îles alimens, comme les petits pierres qui se rencontrent dans le gesier ou Vestamac musculeux des oiseaux.”
(Erpitologie
Giui-
raie,
iii. 27.)
glass gives way within its ponderous jaws as easily as if ground in a coarse mill.
, During the season of love, in spring, the male alligator is a fierce and dangerous animal, and possibly its observation by different naturalists, at different seasons of the year, may account for the contradictions which pervade the recorded statements of its life and manners. When thus excited, no man dares to swim or wade among them, or, as Mr Audubon quietly observes, “ they are usually left alone at this season,” a delicate piece of attention, which, we doubt not, like other virtues, is its own reward. The female prepares her nest about the first of June, choosing a place about forty or fifty yards from the water, in some thick bramble or cane, where she gathers leaves, sticks, and rubbish of all kinds, carrying the materials in her mouth as a hog does straw. As soon as a proper nidus is formed, she lays about ten eggs, which she covers over with more rubbish and mud ; and proceeding in this manner, she deposits about fifty or sixty eggs in various layers. The whole is then covered up, matted, and tangled together with long grasses, in such a manner that it is extremely difficult to break it up. These eggs are in size Hkethose of a goose, but of a longer form, and are protected rather by a parchment-like transparent substance than by shell. Though they are not eaten either by hogs or vultures, the female, now not only wary, but ferocious, watches near the spot, visiting the water from time to time for food. The nest is of course easily discovered, as she always goes and returns the same way, and soon forms a conspicuous path by the dragging of her giant form. According to Mr Audubon, to whom we stand indebted for these details, it is not the heat of the sun which hatches the eggs, but that of the nest itself,—a perfect hot-bed, from the mode of its formation. The young, as soon as excluded, force their way through thc walls of their putrescent chambers, and issue forth all as beautiful and brisk as lizards. The female then leads them to the lake, or more frequently, for greater security, to some small detached bayou ; for now the males, their own ungentle fathers, will swallow them by hundreds, and the wood-ibis and sand-hill cranes devour them.@@1
A. Sclerops,
Cuv. ;
Croc. SclerOps,
Schn.
Spectacled alligator.
This is more especially the alligator of Guiana and Brazil. Its snout, though broad, has not the sides parallel, as in the preceding, and is more triangular in its shape. The lower edge of the orbits are very prominent, and a crest projecting between them gives the appearance whence their specific name is derived. Its colour is bluish-green above, and irregularly marbled green and yellow, more or less pale, below. Azara speaks ofa red variety, which is the most savage of all. It acquires a great size. Cuvier has seen it fourteen feet long ; and in Surinam some have attained the length of twenty and twenty-four feet. In South America it extends as far as 32° south latitude, the same distance from the equator on the one side, as the preceding species reaches on the other. It cannot run half so swiftly as man, and rarely attacks him ; but when the eggs are plundered, the female defends them courageously. She lays, according to some, as many as sixty, and covers them with a few leaves or a little straw. It passes the night in water, as Herodotus states of the crocodile of the Nile, and during thc day basks in the sun on the banks. It has been stated, that in certain places, when the morass is partially dried, the remaining water is so crowded with caymans that nothing is to be seen but their projecting backs.
It was probably over this species (the
Yacare
of Azara,
Jacare noir
of Spix) that Mr Waterton obtained his far-famed and well-known conquest ; and of it also that he relates the following anecdote. “ One fine evening last year, as the people of Angustura, said its governor, were sauntering up and down here on the bank of the Oronoco, I was within twenty yards of this place, when I saw a large cayman rush out of the river, seize a man, and carry him down, before any body had it in his power to assist him. The screams of the poor fellow were terrible as the cayman was running off with him. He plunged into the river with his prey ; we instantly lost sight of him, and never saw or heard him more.” The negroes of South America sometimes eat the flesh, notwithstanding its fetid and musky smell. Azara tells us that they succeed in sticking it with an armed harpoon, and after fatiguing it in the water, Dull it out by main force and despatch it.
A. Palpebrosus,
Cuv.
Bony eyelid alligator.
The muzzle in this species is somewhat longer and less depressed than in the preceding, and the margins of the orbits are not projecting. The character, however, which at once distinguishes it from all the other Crocodilidæ is, that the upper eyelid is wholly occupied with an osseous plate, divided into three pieces by sutures. None of its congeners have more than a small osseous particle near the inner angle. Its teeth are ½¾ on each side of each jaw. The interval between the two external toes is less palmated than in the other species, from which it may be concluded to be more terrestrial. This animal inhabits Cayenne, and exhibits considerable variation in its characters.
In addition to these clearly distinct species, naturalists now recognise the two following, viz. the dog-headed cayman,
Al. cynocephalus,
Dum. and Bib., and the black spotted cayman,
Al. puηctulatus,
Spix.2
FAMILY IL—LACERTINIDÆ. LIZAKDS IN GENERAL.
The members of this family are characterised by a slender extensile tongue, terminated by two filaments, like that of many snakes. All the four legs have five toes, separate, of unequal size, especially the hinder ones, and furnished with nails. The scales on the abdomen, and those beneath the tail, are disposed in transverse parallel bands. A produced portion of the skin, longitudinally cleft, and closing by a sphincter, protects the eye, beneath the anterior angle of which there is the vestige of a third eyelid. The false ribs do not form an entire circle.
The species of this family are numerous and diversified, and now constitute several generic groups. Like all other reptiles, they are much more abundant in sultry than in cold or temperate climates. “ I am positive,” says Mr Bruce, alluding to the lizard tribe in general, “ that I can say without exaggeration, that the number I saw one day, in the great court of the temple of the sun at Balbec, amounted to many thousands ; the ground, the walls, and stones of the ruined buildings were covered with them, and the various colours of which they consisted made a very extraordinary appearance, glittering under the sun, in which they lay sleeping and basking.” He adds, that the desert parts of Syria, bordering on Arabia Deserta, abound with these reptiles beyond the possibility of calculation.
The genus Monitor of Cuvier contains the largest species, some of them almost approaching to the size of crocodiles. They have teeth on both jaws, but none upon the palate. The greater number have the tail compressed, which aids their aquatic propensities. Their vicinity to water brings them into the frequent neighbourhood of crocodiles and caymans, and they are said to give warning of the approach of thcse formidable reptiles by a shrill whistle. Hence probably their name of monitor. That of
Tupinam-
1
@@@ See “ Observations on the Natural History of the Alligator,” hy John J. Audnbon, Esq. in
Edinburgh Ncui Philosophical Journal,
ii. 270.    
2 Erpttologie Generals,
iii. 86-91.
bis,
which they often bear, was bestowed upon them by an error of Seba’s, who, misconstruing a passage in Margrave, applied to these reptiles the designation of a tribe of people.
The
first subdivision
of the genus contains the Monitors
properly so called
(genus Varanus, Dum.),@@1 distinguished by small and numerous scales on the head, limbs, beneath the abdomen, and around the tail, the last-named portion being surmounted by a kind of keel formed by a double range of projecting scales. The thighs want the peculiar range of pores observable among several other groups of saurians. The species are confined exclusively to the ancient world, although Seba, and in later years Daudin, have stated the contrary. Travellers report that they prey on the eggs of water-fowl and on those of crocodiles, and that chameleons, young turtles, and fishes, have been found in their stomachs. M. Leschenault de Latour even states that they combine together on the banks of lakes and rivers for the purpose of attacking such quadrupeds as come to assuage their thirst, and that he has seen them attempt to drown a young stag which was trying to cross a river. He moreover found the thigh-bone of a sheep in one which he dissected.
The monitor of the Nile
(L. Nilοticα,
Linn.
Varanus Niloticus,
Dum.), called
Ouaran
by the Arabs, has the teeth strong and conical, the posterior becoming rounded by age. The general colour is brown, with paler and darker points, forming various compartments, among which are transverse rows of large oceliated spots, which on the tail become ring-like. The tail is rounded at the base, and surmounted by a keel throughout its whole length. This species grows to the length of five or six feet A vulgar belief prevails among the Egyptians, that it is a young crocodile hatched in drier earth than usual. Its figure is engraved on the ancient monuments of Egypt, probably in connection with the fact of its preying on the eggs of the crocodile. To the monitors also belong the animal called scink
(L. sciηcus,
Merr., but not of Linn.,
Var. arenarius, 
Dum.), a small species, very abundant in Libya, Syria, Egypt, and Arabia, where it frequents rather dry and sandy soils. It is called
Ouaran el bard
by the Arabs. Its teeth are compressed, cutting, and pointed, the tail almost without ridge, and a great part of it rounded. Its habits are more terrestrial than those of the preceding, and it may be regarded as identical with the land-crocodile of Herodotus. The jugglers of Cairo pluck out its teeth, and then employ it in the performance of tricks. Many other monitors are found both in Africa and India.@@2
The
second subdivision
of Baron Cuvier’s monitors consists of such as have angular plates upon the head, and large rectangular scales beneath the abdomen and around the tail. The skin of the throat is clothed with small scales, and forms a couple of transverse folds. There is a row of pores upon the thighs.
This subdivision corresponds to the genus Teyus of Merrem, and several minor groups may be indicated in it. For example, those called Dracænæ by Lacépède have the scales raised up into ridges, as among the crocodile tribe, and forming crests along the tail, which is compressed. An eatable species (
Mon. crocodilinus,
Merr.) occurs in Guiana, where it inhabits holes in the vicinity of marshes. It is said to swim with difficulty, to run rather swiftly, to climb trees with facility, and to bite severely. It attains the length of six feet, and is characterized by some scattered ridges of scales upon the back. Another and much smaller species
(Drac. bicnrinαtd)
likewise inhabits South America. (See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 1.) The little group of safe
guards
(Sauvegardes,
C11V. the restricted genus
Monitor
of Fitzinger) have all the scales of the back and tail without ridges. Their teeth are dentated, although those of the back part of the mouth become rounded by use or age. Some have the tail more or less compressed, and the scales of the abdomen longer than broad. They dwell by the banks of rivers. Such is the very large variegated lizard
(L. tequixin),
well represented by Madame Me-rian at the end of her work on the insects of Surinam. It inhabits Brazil, Guiana, &c. where it attains the length of six feet. It runs rapidly, and plunges into the water when pursued, although it can scarcely be said to swim. It feeds on insects, reptiles, the eggs of poultry and of other birds, and is itself useful as an article of food. Others, distinguished by the nameof√4me⅛α, scarcely differfrom the preceding sections of the genus Teyus, except in the tail being rounded, and no way compressed, and furnished, as well as the abdomen, with transverse rows of square scales. The scales of the abdomen are rather broader than long. The species of this little group may be regarded as the
lizards
of America, that is, as representing in the new world the reptiles which we so designate in the old ; but they differ in wanting the molar teeth, the majority have no collar, and all the scales upon the throat are small. Their heads also are more pyramidal, and they want the osseous plate above the orbits. Several different species have been confounded under the title of
Laccrta ameiva.
The most generally distributed is that named
Teyus ameiva
by Spix. (See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 2.) It is of a green colour, with vertical rows of white ocelli, bordered with black upon the flanks.
The genus Lacerta, Cuv., or lizards properly so called, forms the second principal group of the Lacertine family. They have the back part of the palate armed with two rows of teeth, and are further distinguished from the Ameivas and Safeguards by a collar beneath the neck, formed by a transverse row of broad scales, separated from those of the abdomen by a space, on which there are only minute scales, as on the throat. A portion also of the bones of the cranium projects over the orbits and temples, so that all the upper part of the head is provided with a bony buckler.
Lizards are remarkable for their lively movements, and light and elegant forms. Their colours are also often brilliant. They pass the winter in a state of torpidity, and are always active and vivacious in proportion to the power of the solar heat. They are often seen stretching themselves on rocks or stones, however heated, and brandishing from time to time their forked tongues, a motion which in some countries has induced the belief of their being venomous, an unfounded idea, we need scarcely say, no creatures being more innocent. They are by no means difficult to tame, but in a state of nature we have usually found them very timorous, although M. Bory St Vincent regards them as being as bold as they are beautiful. “ Nous en avons vu plusieurs saisir bravement au museau des chiens d’arrêt qui les avaient surpris dans quelque pelouse sèche, et ne pas lâcher prise malgré les secouses violentes et les efforts que faisaient ces chiens pour se delivrent.” They are by no means devoid of intelligence, and, though shy and fearful, are decidedly inquisitive in regard to what takes place around them. When raising themselves as high as their little limbs permit, in order to enlarge their “ visible diurnal sphere,” they often exhibit themselves to a quiet and concealed spectator in attitudes of great beauty. They frequently show themselves more alarmed for birds and quadrupeds than for the human race, and they will even acquire a certain degree of tameness when domiciled near
@@@1 The term
Monitor
is somewhat injudiciously applied to this restricted group, in as taras it does not contain tbe species originally so named, that is, the
grande sauvegarde d'Amérique,—Laeerta tequixin
of I,inn. and Shaw.
@@@2 The genera
Varanus
and
Heloderma
form a distinct family ( Farnntnu) in the system of M M. Ilumeril and Bibron. Of the former genus, four are Asiatic, two are from New Holland, one is from the Papous, one from Timor, and three are of African origin.
Heloderma horridum
(the sole species) is the only American member of the family.
the dwelling of a gently-disposed lover of nature. They fear cats and children. Lizards change their skins, like most otller reptiles, and the difference between the brightness and brilliancy of their old and new attire has caused the description by naturalists of many species which have no foundation in reality. Although belonging to the coldblooded classes, they are warmly attached to their females, and frequent battles take place among the males for the possession of their fair companions. The eggs are covered by a pale-coloured membranous skin, and are hatched by the heat of the sun, whether in the body of the basking parent, or after exclusion. The eggs themselves increase in size considerably, as the creature contained within develops its parts. The reptiles of this group are never voluntarily found in water. They dislike that element, and avoid it, being bad swimmers ; nevertheless, when pursued down steepish banks, we have seen them swim across small ditches to gain the other side and avoid persecution. One of the most singular attributes of these creatures consists in their extreme fragility. When running up a bank, or otherwise attempting to escape from danger, if even a light glove or handkerchief is cast upon them, several inches of the terminal portion of their body comes riggling off, and will twist about among the grass for a considerable period with great liveliness, while the body with its head and four legs proceeds upon its way rejoicing. The tail even appears to rest itself from riggling for a time, and if touched with a pin, or otherwise incommoded, will then resume its movements with such an apparent character of discomposure, as if it were expressing its dislike at the annoyance.
Although several anatomists, proceeding upon their too exclusive knowledge of the higher classes of creation, in which there is no reproduction of important parts, have doubted the extent and universality of this inherent power in reptiles, there is yet no fact in natural history more satisfactorily determined. When we refer to the satisfaction of the subject, we allude chiefly to the feelings of the experimenter, those of the creatures in question being, we fear, in such a crisis, but sparingly consulted. In numerous reptiles, the limbs, and a great portion of the posterior part of the body, may be cut off without more than a temporary inconvenience, the removal being not only speedy, but complete. Blumenbach, one of our highest modern authorities, has repeated@@1 the experiment alluded to by Pliny.@@2 He destroyed with an iron point the eyes of the green lizard, and placing the poor creature in a vessel with some fresh earth, which he deposited in moist soil, he found, after the lapse of a brief period, that the organs of sight were entirely reproduced,—“ in integrum restitutos.” Lizards and reptiles of the genus
Scineus,
of which the tail has been either intentionally or accidentally broken off, are found to reproduce it speedily. The newer portion is recognisable externally by the form and colour of the scales, and on dissection the vertebræ are found replaced by pieces of a more cartilaginous nature, which probably never acquire the hardness or consistency of bone. Many experiments have shown the facility with which the limbs and tail of water-newts, and other aquatic reptiles, may be reproduced.@@3 “ Qu’il nous soit permit,” says M. Duméril, rather winningly, “ de consigner ici une de nos expériences : nous avons emporté avec les ciseaux les trois quarts de la tête d’un triton marbré. Cet animai, placé isolément au fond d’un large bocal de crystal, où nous avions soin de conserver de l’eau fraîche à la naureur d’un demi-pouce, en prenant la précaution de la renouveler au moins une fois chaque jour, a continué de vivre et d’agir lentement. C’était un cas bien curieux pour la physiologie ; car ce triton privé de quatre sens principaux, les narines, la langue, les yeux, et les oreilles, c’était reduit à ne vivre extérieurement que par Ie toucher. Cependant il avait la conscience de son existence ; il marchait lentement et avec précaution ; de temps à autre, et à des grands intervalles, il portait le moignon de son cou vers la surface de l’eau, et dans les premier jours on le voyait faire des efforts pour respirer. Nous avons vu, pendant au moins trois mois, se faire un travail de reproduction et de cicatrisation telle qu’il n’est resté aucune ouverture ni pour les poumons ni pour les aliments. Par malheur, cet animal a péri au bout des trois premiers mois d’observations suivies, peut-être par le défaut de soins d’une personne à laquelle nous l’avions recommandé pendant une absence. Mais on a conservé le sujet dans les collections du muséum, et quand nous en parlons dans nos cours, nous le faisions voir à nu pour qu’on puisse constater la singularité du fait d’un animal qui a vécu sans tête, et surtout pour demontrer la possibilité et la nécessité, même chez les Batracians, d’une sorte de respiration par la peau.”4
We may observe, that in all the tentative experiments which have been hitherto made upon this subject, it has been perceived that these renewals are favoured by warmth and retarded by cold. As an article of diet, lizards are scarcely ever used in Europe, unless in years of peculiar scarcity. Their flesh is said to possess a sudorific quality.
The species of this genus are numerous in many continental countries (from fifteen to twenty different European kinds being known to naturalists), but are few in Britain. Of the former, one of the most beautiful is the Ocellated lizard
(L. Ocellata,
Daudin), well known in Spain, Italy, and the south of France. It likewise occurs in Barbary, and, generally speaking, over a great portion of the basin of the Mediterranean ; but being extremely sensible to cold, it is not likely to extend into Kamtschatka, as some suppose. It may be kept alive within doors in Spain throughout the winter (it naturally then assumes the torpid state), but will perish if dug up from its retreat, and exposed to cold approaching to the freezing point. This magnificent reptile sometimes attains the length, even in Europe, of two feet, although its more usual length is from twelve to fifteen inches. Its proportions are rather ample, that is, somewhat thicker than usual, yet it is by no means devoid of elegance ; and although it can scarcely be said to be ornamented with those tints of azure, green, and gold, which Lacépède has lavished on it, with more of poetical fancy than precision, it yet is pleasingly adorned. The back is black, beset with numerous circles of green or yellow distributed in great profusion, and showing like pearly beads upon a darker ground. The head is beautifully marbled with green and black, as are also the upper portions of the thighs and feet. The tail is brow nish, and all the under parts are of a greenish yellow. “ Le lézard dont il est question est innocent, mais hardi ; il fuit au moindre bruit, non lâchement, s’arrêtant de distances en distances pour observer la cause de sa crainte, et si on le presse de trop près il se jette sur l’assaillant en faisant entendre un certain Soufflement qui rappelle en petit celui qui font entendre les oies en colère. Comme on en trouvait beaucoup aux environs d’une baronie de Saint Magne, où nous avons passé les premiers temps de notre jeunesse, et que nous en avons été souvent violem
@@@1
Specimen Physiologia: Comparative,
p. 31.    
’ Historia Mundi,
lib. xxix. chap. 38 ; and Ælian, edit. Schneid. lib. v. 47-
@@@2 On this very curious physiological subject the reader may consult the following works : Plateretti,
Su k reproducionc dclle gambe e della coda dclle Salamandre aquajuole.
Scelt. de Oμusc. interes, vol. xxvii. p. 18. Spallanzani,
Sopra le Teprodusioni animali,
Fisica Animale e Vegetehile, 1768. Murray,
Commentatio de redintegratione partium nexu suo solutarum vel amissarum,
1787. Bonnet,
Sur
la ri-
production des membres de la Salamandre aquatique,
Œuvres d’Hist. Nat. et de Philos, t. v. p. I77.
@@@3 Erpétologie Générale,
i. 209.
ment mordus en leur faisant la petite guerre que l’enfance livre à tout ce qui fuit, nous pouvons affirmer que leur dent ne produit aucun mauvais effet après la douleur du moment. Il suffit d’avoir vu un seul grand lézard vert, pour s’étonner que Linné ait pu confondre cette espèce avec le lézard gris.”@@1
It has been observed by the prince of Musignano (C. L. Bonaparte), that the Linnæan term
agilis
has been applied by the naturalists of different countries to that species of lizard which was most common or best known in their own. In this way several distinct kinds have been described under one name, and regarded as identical. The true
L. agilis of
Linn, is a northern species, which becomes rare in Italy, but is sufficiently common in France, and extends into Denmark and Sweden. Its history as a British reptile has been clearly illustrated only within a recent period by Mr Jenyns and others ; for the so-called
L. agilis
of the generality of British authors ought not to be so named.@@2 The actual species varies as usual in colour and markings ; but the most common hue of the upper parts is sandy-brown, with obscure longitudinal fasciæ of a darker brown, and a lateral series of black rounded spots, each marked with a yellowish-white dot or line in the centre. “ It is more timid,” says Mr Bell, “ and far less easily rendered familiar, than the beautiful green lizard
(L. viridis)
of Guernsey and the south of Europe. This latter species may be readily tamed, and taught to come to the hand for its food, and to drink from the hollow of the palm of any one to whom it is accustomed. It will lie coiled up between the two hands, enjoying the warmth, and not offering to escape. But it is very different from the present species, which appears not to be susceptible of any such attachment. It will indeed attempt to bite any one who handles it, which 1 have never known to occur with
L
.
viridis.
When in confinement it ceases to feed, conceals itself with extreme timidity when approached, and ultimately pines and dies.” Mr Bell has bestowed the English name of sand-lizard on this
L. agilis.
Our only other British species is the common viviparous lizard
(L. vivipara,
Jacquin,
Zootoca vivipara,
Bell@@3 ) confounded with the true
L. agilis
by many authors. “ This agile and pretty little creature,” Mr Bell observes, “ is the common inhabitant of almost all our heaths and banks in most of the districts of England, and extending even into Scotland ; it is also one of the few reptiles found in Ireland. On the continent its range does not appear to be very extensive ; it is not found in Italy, nor, I believe, in
France, and is very probably confined in a great measure to our own latitude. Its movements are beautifully gracile as well as rapid ; it comes out of its hiding-place during the warm parts of the day, from the early spring till autumn has far advanced, basking in the sun, and turning its head with a sudden motion the instant that an insect comes within its view ; and, darting like lightning upon its prey, it seizes it with its little sharp teeth, and speedily swallows it.” This species also varies greatly in its external aspect. The prevailing ground colour of the upper parts is greenish brown, with a dark brown dorsal line often interrupted ; a broad fascia extends parallel with this on each side, commencing behind the eyes, and extending to a greater or less distance down the tail ; and between these and the former are often one or more rows of black dots, and similar ones occur in many individuals in the broad lateral fascia. The under side of tlle body and base of the tail are orange, spotted with black in the male ; in the female grayish brown without spots. In reference to Mr Bell’s excellent account of this reptile, we take leave to add, that although it is no doubt entitled to the character of an ovo-viviparous species, the young are not always born at once from the body of the mother, that is, already freed from the encumbrance of the egg. We have several times kept gravid females in our possession, and on two occasions the membranous eggs were deposited unbroken, and the young lay within them for from two hours till a day and a half before they made their appearance. Their movements, however, were visible through the walls of their prison from the moment they were laid.
The more limited genus Algyra of Cuvier has the tongue, teeth, and pores of the lizards ; but the scales on the back and tail are ridged, those on the abdomen smooth and imbricated, and the collar is wanting. In the genus Tachydromus, Daudin, the scales on the back, and those beneath the tail and abdomen, are square and ridged ; the collar on the neck is absent, as well as the pores on the thighs, but on either side of the anal aperture there is a vesicle opening by a pore. The body and tail are both much elongated. The species run with great swiftness. See Plate CCCCXXXL fig. 3.
FAMILY III—IGUANIDÆ. IGUANAS.@@4
In this family the general form, the lengthened tail, the free and unequal toes, resemble those parts in the lizard
@@@1
Dictionnaire Classique (ΓHist. Nat.
ix. 339.
@@@2 See Jenyns, s
British Vertebrate Animals,
p. 291 ; and Bell’s
History of British Rcptiles1
p. 22.
@@@3 Mr Bell assigns as one of the generic characters by which this species differs from his restricted genus
Laccrtay
that the palate is toothless, while it is armed in that last named.
@@@4 The great family of the
Iguanidæ
iβ divided by MM. Duméril and Bibron into forty-six genera, containing 146 species, the detailed descriptions of which occupy about 560 closely-printed pages in the work of those authors. (See
Erpétologie Générale,
tom. iv.). We regret that our restricted limits debar us from following their extended system, but we shall here present a tabular view of the genera and amount of species, partitioned in accordance with their geographical distribution.
tribe, and the eyes, ears, and other characters are similar, but the tongue is thick, fleshy, not extensile, and, instead of being terminated by two filaments, is merely notched at the extremity.
Sect. L—
No teeth on the palate.
Agamians, Cuv.
a.
Tail surrounded by rings composed of large scales,
which are frequently spiny.
Stelliones,
Cuv.
In the genus Cordylus of Gronovius, not only the tail, but even the back and abdomen, are furnished with large scales placed in transverse rows. The head, as in the common lizards, is provided with a bony buckler, and covered with plates. In several species the points of the scales of the tail form spinous circles, and there are also little spines on the sides of the back, on the shoulders, and outside the thighs. The last-named parts have a line of very large pores. The Cape of Good Hope produces several species, which have been long confounded in systematic works under the name of
LaceRa coτdylus,
Linn. They are somewhat larger than the common green lizard of Europe, and like it feed on insects.
In the genus Stellio of Daudin, the spines of the tail are of medium size, the back part of the head is bulged by the muscles of the jaws, the back and thighs are here and there beset with scales of larger size, sometimes spiny, and little groups of spines surround the ears. The thighs want the pores. The tail is long and pointed. Only a single species seems distinctly known to naturalists,—
St. vulgaris (L. stellio,
Linn.), a reptile very common in Egypt, and throughout the Levant. It measures about a foot in length, and is of an olive hue shaded with black. It is the 
hoscordylus
of the modem Greeks
(hardun
of the Arabs), and is not Unfrequently named the rough lizard, in consequence of the unusually hispid appearance of the whole of its upper surface. The Mahommedans slay this species wrathfully, from a feeling that a peculiar downward inclination of its head is in mockery of their own reverential motions while engaged in prayer. The species called
stellio 
by ancient writers was so named on account of its being marked by spots resembling stars, and was probably in no way allied to the genus to which in after times the title was applied.
The genus Doryphorus, Cuv. (a name too nearly resembling one already bestowed upon a group of insects), resembles tlle preceding in the absence of pores, but the body is not beset with groups of spines. (See Plate CCCCXXXL fig. 4.) The azure lizard
(L. azuτea,
Linn.) may serve as an example. The genus Uromastix, Cuv., may be described as composed of stellions, of which the hind head is not inflated ; all the scales of the body small, smooth, and uniform, except those of the upper surface of the tail, which are large, spiny, and projecting. There is a series of pores upon the thighs.
Stellio spinipes
of Daudin is a
Uromas-tix.
It is found in the deserts which encompass Egypt, and is supposed by Belon, although without sufficient proof, to have been the
land-crocodile
of the ancients. It measures from two to three feet, has an inflated body of a fine grass-green colour, with small spines upon the thighs, as well as on the upper portion of the tail.
⅛. Scales on the tail imbricated.
Agamœ,
Daud.
In the ordinary or restricted genus Agama, scales raised into points or tubercles beset different parts of the body, and especially the ears, with spiny projections, isolated or in groups. There is sometimes a row upon tlle nape of the neck, but not forming a compressed crest as in
Calotes. 
The skin of the throat is loose, transversely folded, and susceptible of dilatation. A species from New Holland 
(Ag. barbata,
Cuv.) is remarkable for its size and extraordinary formation. A series of large spiny scales, disposed in transverse bands, prevails along the back and tail. The throat, often much inflated, is furnished with long pointed scales, forming a kind of beard-like appendage ; and similar scales beset the sides, and form two oblique crests behind the ears. There are yellow spots upon the abdomen, bordered with black. Another of this genus is the muricated lizard of Shaw
(L. muricata),
likewise a native of New Holland. In some the body is enlarged or inflated, so as
to appear orbicular, as in
A. orbicularis,
a South American reptile, which, from its thickened form and broadened head, seems at first sight a connecting link between the frogs and lizards.
The genus Trapelus, Cuv., has the teeth and general form of Agama, but the scales are small and spineless. There are no pores on the thighs.
T. Egyptius,
Geoff, is a small species, in which the body is sometimes inflated. It can change its colour even more rapidly than the chameleon. This genus is not easily distinguished from some thick and slightly spined species of Agama, to which indeed the genera
Leiolepis, Tropidolepis,
and
Leposoma,
are nearly allied, and for the descriptive characters of which we may refer the reader to systematic works. The genus Calotes, Cuv., differs from Agama in being regularly covered with scales disposed tile-ways, often keeled and pointed, as well on the body as on the limbs, and tail, which is of great length. The scales on the middle of the back are more or less raised and compressed, forming a crest or ridge of variable extent. There are neither wattles nor pores upon the thighs,
-—characters which sufficiently distinguish them from the
Iguanas proper.
The best-known species is that called the galeot lizard
(L. calotes,
Linn.), of a variable colour, but usually of a fine light blue, with transverse lines of white upon the sides. There are two rows of spines behind the ear, and a lengthened ridge along the back. Its eggs are fusiform, or spindle-shaped. This curious reptile is native to the East Indies, and is called
chameleon
in the Moluccas, though it scarcely changes its colour. It is said to wander about upon the roofs of houses in quest of spiders ; and Lacépède observes that it is reported to prey even on rats, and to fight with serpents. When out of temper, its throat becomes so inflated as to give it a frightful aspect. If authors are correct, its distribution must be very extensive, as it is said to occur not only in the East Indies, but in Arabia and Barbary. It certainly, however, does not inhabit Spain, as some have said. In tlle genus Lophyrus, Duméril, the scales of the body resemble those of
Agama, 
and the palisade-like ridge upon the back is even higher than in
Calotes.
The tail is compressed. To this genus belongs
Agama gigantca
of Khul, remarkable for the height of its crest above the neck. Two bony ridges continued from the muzzle terminate in a point on each side above the eye, and join upon the temples. It is a nati ve of India. In Lyriocephalus, Merrem, we find a species in which the bony crest above the eyes is even more marked than in the preceding, and terminates behind on each side in a sharp point. This strange reptile is found in Bengal and other parts of the East, and is said to live on grain. See Plate CCCCXXXL fig. 5.
The preceding generic groups, from Agama downwards, are all more or less allied to the
Agamœ
of Daudin. We now proceed to a brief consideration of certain genera, of which the relationship is more remote.
The genus Istiurus of Cuvier is distinguished by an elevated cutting crest, which extends to a portion of the tail, and is supported by the high spinal processes of the vertebræ. This crest is scaly like the rest of the body, and the scales of the abdomen and tail are small, and rather of a square form. There are no teeth on the palate, but those of the other parts of the mouth are strong, compressed, and w ithout dentation. The thighs bear a row of pores. The skin of the throat is loose, but does not form a dewlap. To this genus belongs that very remarkable animal the Amboyna lizard
(L. Amboinensis,
Gm.), first described by Valentyn, and afterwards with great accuracy and an excellent figure by Dr Albert Schlosser in 1768. The back is spined, but the regular ridge only commences at the base of the tail, over a portion of which it extends, like a broad upright fin. The head and neck are green, varied by transverse whitish undulations ; the back and tail
are brown, with a slight cast of blue or purple ; and the sides and abdomen are grayish, spotted by means of round white scales. It resides, according to Valentyn, in the vicinity of fresh waters, and is frequently observed on the banks of rising grounds as well as on the lowlier kinds of shrubs which vegetate near the water, but does not ascend the taller trees. When disturbed by the approach of man or beast, it instantly dives, and hides itself among the rocks or stones beneath the banks. When captured, it does not in any way defend itself, but seems stupified. It may be caught by a noose or snare, and its flesh is said to be white and sweet, although of a penetrating odour. It is highly esteemed as food by many, and is itself accustomed to prey both on insects and vegetable substances. It sometimes attains a length of nearly four feet.
The genus Draco, Linn., may be distinguished at a glance from all other Saurian reptiles, by the singular peculiarity of six false ribs, which, instead of conforming as usual to the shape of the body, extend from it at right angles, and supporting a produced portion of the skin, present the appearance of a pair of wings. They support the animal in the air, as it leaps from branch to branch, but have no propelling power, and so cannot raise it in the least degree. In relation to their other characters, these so-called dragons are of small size, and covered all over by imbricated scales, of which those on the tail and limbs are keeled. The tongue is fleshy, not very extensile, and slightly notched. Beneath the throat there is a long pointed dewlap, supported by the tail of the hyoid bone ; and on its sides are two others of smaller size, sustained by the horns of the same bone. The tail is long ; there is a small dentation on tlle nape of the neck ; and the thighs have no pores. Each jaw is furnished with four small incisor teeth, with a pair of long-pointed canines, and twelve triangular three-lobed grinders. The genus may be said to combine the scales and dewlaps of the Iguanas, with the head and teeth of the Stellions. See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 6.
All the known species of Draco inhabit the East Indies, and have derived their generic appellation from their supposed resemblance to the fictitious Dragons of antiquity. In all ages, and in most countries, the imagination of timid or fantastic men has produced a belief in the existence of fabulous beings, of monstrous forms and irresistible ferocity, which carried devastation into provinces, guarded the entrance to sacred places, or watched over “ sunless heaps” of hidden gold. The heroic history of Greece, and the darker superstitions of the Germanic people, are alike pervaded by these fond beliefs. “ Rendered celebrated,” says Lacépède, “ by the songs of Greece and Rome, the principal ornament of pious fables imagined in more recent times, conquered by heroes, and even by youthful heroines, who were contending for a divine law, and adopted by a second mythology, which placed tlle fairies on tlle throne of the enchantress of old, the Dragon became the emblem of the splendid actions of valiant knights, and has enlivened modem as it animated ancient poetry. Proclaimed by the severe voice of history, everywhere described, everywhere celebrated, everywhere dreaded ; exhibited under all forms, always clothed with tremendous power, and immolating his victims by a single glance ; transporting himself through the midst of clouds with the rapidity of lightning, dissipating the darkness of night by the terrific splendour of his glaring eyes, uniting the agility of the eagle, the strength of the lion, and the magnitude of the giant serpent ; sometimes presented under a human figure, endowed with an intelligence almost divine, and adored, even in our own days, in the great empires of the East,—the Dragon, in short, has been all in all, and everywhere to be found, except in nature.”
The existence of these animals has not been altogether discredited, even in modern times. About the middle of
last century, a Hamburg merchant greatly prided himself on the possession of a femous dragon, which he valued at 10,000 florins. It was however discovered by the penetrating eye of the then youthful Linnæus to be a gross deception, formed by a combination of the skins of snakes, the teeth of weasels, and other absurd and heterogeneous elements, “ non Natune sed artis opus eximium.” It is said that the great Swedish naturalist was obliged to flee the city to avoid the wrath of the enraged proprietor. A similar fraud seems to have been practised in our own country towards the close of the seventeenth century, and is thus related by Dr Grainger, from a note of Dr Zachary Grey, in his edition of Hudibras. “ Mr Smith of Bedford observes to me, on the word
dragon,
as follows : Mr Jacob Robart, botany professor@@1 of Oxford, did, about forty years ago, find a dead rat in the Physic Garden, which he made to resemble the common picture of dragons, by altering its head and tail, and thrusting in taper sticks, which distended the skin on each side, till it mimicked wings. He let it dry as hard as possible. The learned immediately pronounced it a dragon ; and one of them sent an accurate description of it to Dr Magliabechi, librarian to the Grand Duke of Tuscany ; several copies of verses were wrote on so rare a subject ; but at last Mr Robart owned the cheat ; however, it was looked upon as a masterpiece of art, and as such deposited in the museum, or anatomy school, where I saw it some years after.”
We need hardly here observe, that the actual dragons, or
Dracones
of naturalists, are harmless animals, of small size though extraordinary forms, which inhabit chiefly the insular forests of the Indian Ocean. (See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 6.) In these umbrageous places they pursue their insect prey, descending but rarely to the ground, on which they walk with difficulty. According to Van Ernest, a Dutch naturalist, they couple among the branches, and the female deposits her eggs in hollow trees, under favour of a south exposure. We are doubtful regarding their amphibious propensities, as reported by M. Palisot de Beauvois, who remarked one in the
kingdom of Benin,
which he was unable to procure, because it was swimming in the water. Now Baron Cuvier states that “ les espèces connues viennent toutes
des Indes Orientalesy
Three distinct species of Draco are described by M. Daudin, who was the first to discriminate their characters. 
D. Iineatus (υolaιιs,
Linn.) has the body varied above with blue and gray, the wings brown, with longitudinal stripes of white.
D. viridis
is green, the wings gray, with brown bands. This is the species described by Seba under the name of
winged dragon of America,
and afterwards figured by that author as the
flying dragon of Africa,
in neither of which countries is it ever found. It is said by Bontius to be not uncommon in Java, where it will shoot from tree to tree for a distance of thirty yards, producing a perceptible noise by the vibration of its wings. With a view to render itself specifically lighter, it inflates its yellowish goitres when it flies.
D.fuscus
is brown above, paler beneath ; the wings likewise brown. Eight species are now known to naturalists.
The genus Sitana, Cuv., possesses the teeth of the preceding ; the limbs and body are covered with scales imbricated and keeled, the thighs are without pores, but the false ribs are not expanded. The species are distinguished by an enormous dewlap, which extends as far as the middle of the abdomen, and is more than twice the height of the body. We know not that there is any other described than the Pondicherry species
(Sit. Ponticeriand),
a small reptile of a fawn-colour, with a range of large rhomboidal spots along the back. See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 7.
Sect.
2,—
Teeth on the Palate.
Genus Iguana, Cuv.
Iguanas properly so called.
These have the body and tail covered with small imbricated scales A row of spines or raised scales, compressed and pointed, prevails along the back ; and beneath the throat there is a compressed and pendant dewlap, or gular pouch, of which the margin is supported by a cartilaginous production of the hyoid bone. The thighs bear a line of tubercular pores like those of lizards, and the head is covered with plates. Each jaw supports a range of compressed triangular ⅛eth with dentated cutting edges, and there are moreover two small rows of teeth on the posterior margin of the palate.
The common iguana
(I. tυberculatα,
Laur.,
Lae. iguana,
Linn.) is naturally of a greenish-yellow colour above, mottled with pure green, the tail ringed with brown ; the under parts of a paler hue. The scales of the dorsal crest are large and spinous, and there is a conspicuous rounded plate beneath the tympanum, at the angle of the jaws. The sides of the neck bear some pyramidal scales mingled with the others, and the anterior edge of the dewlap is dentated like the back. This species measures from four to five feet in length, and is extensively spread over many of the warmer countries of America, where it is held in high esteem as an article of diet, though by many regarded as by no means healthful. It dwells chiefly among trees, feeding on fruits, grain, and leaves, and is sometimes seen to enter the water. The female deposits her eggs in the sand. They equal in size those of a pigeon, have scarcely any albumen, and afford excellent eating. The common method of catching this reptile is by casting a noose over its head, and then drawing it from its position. It seldom makes an effort to escape, but stands staring at its antagonist, at the same time inflating its throat in a most extraordinary manner.
“ Guanas,” says Catesby, “ are of various sizes, from two to five feet in length ; their mouths are furnished with exceeding small teeth, but their jaws armed with a long beak, with which they bite with great strength ; they inhabit warm countries only, and are rarely to be met with anywhere north or south of the tropics. Many of the Bahama Islands abound with them, where they nestle in hollow rocks and trees ; their eggs have not a hard shell, like those Ofalligators, but a skin only, like those of a turtle, and are esteemed a good food. They lay a great number of eggs at a time in the earth, which are there hatched by the sun’s heat. These guanas are a great part of the subsistence of the inhabitants of the Ballama Islands, for which purpose they visit many of the remote
kαyes
and islands in their sloops to catch them, which they do by dogs trained up for that purpose, which are so dexterous as not often to kill them, which, if they do, they serve only for present spending ; if otherwise, they sew up their mouths to prevent their biting, and put them into the hold of their sloop till they have catched a sufficient number, which they either carry alive for sale to Carolina, or salt and barrel up for the use of their families at home. These guanas feed wholly on vegetables and fruit, particularly on a kind of fungus growing at the roots of trees, and on the fruits of the different kinds of
annonas. 
Their flesh is easy of digestion, delicate, and well tasted ; they are sometimes roasted ; but the more common way is to boil them, taking out the leaves of fat, which are melted and clarified, and put into a calabash or dish, into which they dip the flesh of the guana as they eat it. It is remarkable that this fat, which adheres to the inside of the abdomen, imbibes the colour of the fruit the animal cats last, which I have frequently seen tinged of a pale red, yellow, or sometimes of a purple colour, which last was from eating the
prunus maritima,
which fruit, at the same time, I took out
@@@1 lie was rather superintendent of the garden than professor properly so called.
of them. Though they are not amphibious, they are said to keep under water above an hour. When they swim, they use not their feet, but clap them close to their body, and guide themselves with their tails ; they swallow all they eat whole. They cannot run fast, their holes being a greater security to them than their heels. They are so impatient of cold that they rarely appear out of their holes but when the sun shines.”
“ The guana,” observes Browne, in his Natural History of Jamaica, “ like most of the tribe, lives a very considerable time without food, and changes its colour with the weather, or the native moisture of its place of residence. I have kept a grown guana about the house for more than two months ; it was very fierce and ill natured at the beginning, but after some days it grew more tame, and would at length pass the greatest part of the day upon the bed or couch, but it went out always at night. I have never observed it to eat anything, except what imperceptible particles it had lapped up in the air ; for it frequently threw out its forked tongue, like the cameleon, as it walked along. The flesh of this creature is liked by many people, and frequently served up in fricassees at their tables, in which state they are often preferred to the best fowls. The guana may be easily tamed while young, and is both an innocent and a beautiful creature in that state.”
The horned iguana of St Domingo
(Ig. cornuta,
Cuv.) is distinguished from the common kind by an osseous conical point between the eyes, and two raised scales upon the nostrils. The neck is not tuberculated. This species measures about four feet in length, and is frequently found on the hills of St Domingo, between Artibonite and Gonaives. It lives on fruits, insects, and small birds, which it seizes with surprising agility, and during the day it couches on trees and rocks to watch for its prey. During the night, and throughout the greatest heats of the hot season, it retires among the chambered rocks, or into the hollows of old trees, and there passes many months in a state of lethargy. This iguana is considered by the negroes as a great delicacy, and they accordingly search for it with avidity. According to the report of the colonists, its flesh resembles in flavour that of the roe-buck, and the maroon dogs make great slaughter among these reptiles.@@1
The naked necked iguana
(Ig. nudicollis,
Cuv.) resembles the preceding species in its dorsal crest, but it does not possess either the large plates beneath the tympanum, nor the scattered tubercles on the sides of the neck. The upper part of the cranium is furnished with gibbous plates, the occiput is tubercular, and the dewlap or gular pouch is slightly dentated, and only on its anterior portion. Its native regions are Brazil and Guadaloupe, not India, as Laurenti supposes. (See Plate CCCCXXXI. fig. 8.) Several other species are described by naturalists.
In the genus
Ophryessa,
Boie, the scales are small and imbricated ; a dorsal crest, not greatly projecting, is prolonged upon the tail, which is compressed. The teeth resemble those of the preceding genus, but there is neither dewlap nor pores. The supercilious lizard of the older authors 
( Oph. superciliosa)
may be named as an example. It is an American species, of a fawn-colour, with a festooned band of brown along the flanks, and measures from twelve to sixteen inches. It derives its specific name from a peculiar membranous ridge which occupies the region of the eyebrow.
The genus Basiliscus, Daudin, has the scales of small size, and the raised ridge on the back and tail is continuous, and supported by the spiny processes of the vertebræ, after the fashion of the tail in the Amboyna lizard, as already mentioned in our brief notice of the gcnus
Istiurus.
The name of Basilisc as naturally recalls to mind the fabled stories of antiquity as that of Dragon. It was supposed to be the most poisonous and malignant of creatures, its very aspect being regarded as fatal to the unhappy beholder. It exercised its tyrannous sway amid the burning and desert sands of Africa, and obliged each meaner reptile to keep at a respectful distance.
Sibilaque effundens cunctas terrentia pestes,
Ante venena nocens, late sibi submovet omne Vulgus, et in vacua regnat Basiliscus arena.
But the animals now known to naturalists under the name of Basilisc, we are happy to say, are harmless creatures, of very innocent manners, although of most extraordinary aspect. They do not occur in Africa, as Lucan feigns, nor in India, as Seba alleges, but in South America, especially Guiana, as Daudin has determined. The best known is the mitred species
(B. mitratus, L. Basiliscus, 
Linn.), distinguished by a membranous crest upon the occiput, somewhat in the form of a cowl or hood, and supported by cartilage. It is of a bluish colour, with two white bands, one behind the eye and another behind the maxillæ. It measures from two to three feet in length, and feeds on grains.
In the genus Polychrus, Cuv. there is no dorsal crest, the head is covered with plates, and the tail is long and slender. The extensile skin of the throat is capable of being formed into a gular pouch at the will of the animal, and this genus possesses the power of changing colour like the cameleons. Thcir lungs are likewise very voluminous, filling up a great portion of the body, and subdividing into various branches. Their false ribs, too, like those of the cameleon, encompass the abdomen, and so unite as to form entire circles. The marbled lizard (
Lac. marmorata,
Linn.) may be named as an example. It is of a reddish-gray colour, marbled with transverse irregular bands of brownish red, sometimes mingled with blue. The tail is of great length. This species is frequent in Guiana.
The genus Anolius, Cuv. combines with the form of the preceding a very peculiar and distinctive character, the skin of the toes being enlarged beneath the ante-penultimate joint, into an oval disk, transversely striated on the under surface, which aids the animal in climbing, which it is otherwise enabled well to do by means of its crooked claws. The body and tail are moreover chagrined with minute scales,' and the majority bear a dewlap or goitre-like expansion beneath the throat, which they not only inflate, but cause to change both in form and colour, in accordance with their various moods of love or anger. Indeed several of the species at least equal the cameleon in their power of assuming frequent and rapid alternations in the colour of their skin. Like these creatures, too, and the genus 
Polychms,
the ribs form entire circles. The species are peculiar to America, and several of them are even naturally of familiar habits, frequenting the vicinity of human habitations.
In some there is a crest upon the tail, supported by the spiny processes of the vertebræ, as in
Istiurus
and
Basiliscus.
Such is the great crested Anolis (An.
velifer,
Cuv.), which measures about a foot in length. The crest extends over one half of the tail, and is supported by from twelve to fifteen rays ; the dewlap reaches to beneath the belly. (See Plate CCCCXXXII. fig. 2.) It is found in the Antilles.
In others the tail is round, or only slightly compressed. The species of this section of the genus are numerous, and have been frequently confounded under one or two specific names. They inhabit the warmer parts of con
1
@@@ Griffith’s
Animal Kingdom,
ix. 225,
tinental America and the West Indies, and change colour with surprising facility, especially in warm weather. They feed on insects, and scarcely equal the size of the gray lizard of Europe. They capture their prey with great alacrity ; and the different individuals are said to fight fiercely when they meet each other. We may mention as an example the red-throat lizard, called by Catesby the green lizard of Jamaica
(L. bullaris,
Linn.). Its muzzle is short, speckled with brown, the eyelids projecting, and the prevailing colour a grassy green. It is common in Jamaica, where it frequents hedges and trees, but does not enter houses. When approached or angered it protrudes its gular pouch, which speedily becomes as bright as a cherry. This peculiar change may be regarded as a kind of menace, to deter its enemy from closer quarters. It is incapable of inflicting the slightest injury by its bite or otherwise. Another species is Catesby’s green Carolina lizard
(An. Caro-Iinensisf
which is of a beautiful golden green, the muzzle flat and elongated. This kind is said by Catesby to be very common in Carolina, where it frequents houses, and becomes in a manner familiar, so as to sport about tables and windows, catching flies with great dexterity. It is seen chiefly in summer, retreating in winter into hollow trees, where it assumes the torpid state. Sometimes, when tempted by delusive sunshine, it re-appears, and on the return of chilly weather becomes enfeebled by the cold and dies. Its colour changes frequently from green to brown, according to the temperature.
FAMILY IV—GECKOTIDÆ.
This family consists of what may be termed the nocturnal lizards, all of which bear a strong resemblance to each other. Baron Cuvier regards them as constituting a single genus, divisible according to the form and structure of the toes, as after mentioned.
The genus Gecko may be characterized as consisting of Saurian reptiles, of not so lank a form as those of the preceding genera. They are rather of a flattened shape, especially about the head ; the feet are of medium size, and the toes of nearly equal length. Their gait is heavy and crawling. Their eyes are large, and the pupil extremely contractile under the influence of light, so that they usually keep themselves concealed throughout the day in dark or sombre places. Their eyelids are very short, and withdraw entirely between the eye and the orbit, which bestows on these animals a very peculiar physiognomy. Their tongue is fleshy, not extensile ; the jaws are furnished all around with a row of very small close-set teeth ; the palate is toothless. The skin is chagrined above with very small granular scales, among which some larger tubercles are often dispersed ; the under parts are covered by flattish scales scarcely so small, and imbricated. The pores on the thigh are not here regarded as a generic character, being absent in some and present in others. The tail is marked by circular folds, as in the genus
Anolis ;
but when mutilated, it has been noticed to renew itself without these folds. This genus is numerous and widely spread, occurring both in the old world and the new.@@1 The dull and doleful aspect of the geckoes, and a certain resemblance which they bear to toads and newts, render them liable to the imputation of poisonous properties,—an assumption without proof, and altogether against analogy.
The majority of the species have the toes enlarged for a greater or less extent, and furnished beneath with regular folds upon the skin, which, by some peculiar action, enable them to adhere to smooth surfaces, to ascend perpendicular walls, and even to creep in a reversed position along a ceiling. The claws are retractile in different ways, and preserve their points and cutting edges; and these characters, combined with the contractile nature of the pupil, has induced a comparison of the geckoes among reptiles to the feline tribes among carnivorous quadrupeds. The claw’s, however, vary in the different species, and in some are altogether wanting. It is in accordance with the particular structure of the toes in different species that the geckoes have been subdivided into several separate groups, which some authors regard as constituting so many distinct genera.@@2
Sect. L—Platydactyli. Toes widened throughout, and furnished beneath with transverse scales.
In certain species of this section of the genus the nails are entirely wanting, and the thumb is very small. They are rather ornamental in their aspect, covered over by tubercles, and adorned by lively colours. They occur in the Isle of France. Some have no pores upon the thighs : such are
G. inunguis,
Cuv., of a violet colour above, white beneath, with a black line along the sides ; and
G. ocellatus, 
Oppel, of a gray hue, covered with brown spots, with white centres. Some possess the pores, as
G. Cepediensis,
a yellowish-red coloured species, marbled with blue, and marked with white along the sides.
In other platydactylous geckoes the nails are wanting only on the thumbs, and on the second and fifth toes of all the feet, and there are no pores upon the thighs. To this little group belongs the wall-gecko, a European species 
(G. fascicularis,
Daud.), called
Tcrrentola
by the Italians. It is of a deep-gray colour, with a rough head ; all the upper parts beset with tubercles, each of which is formed of three or four others of smaller size. It is a creature of a most unseemly aspect, which hides itself in the holes of walls, or beneath heaps of stones, and moreover covers its body with dust and ordure. It, however, delights also in sunshine, and is said not to occur in damp or very sombre situations. In winter it lies inert, but not torpid. It inhabits the countries around the Mediterranean, and ventures as far north as Provence and Languedoc. A nearly allied species occurs in Egypt and Barbary,—G.
Æyyp-tiacus,
Cuv. Its tubercles are round and simple, more projecting on the sides.
The greater number of the platydactylous species want the nails only on the four thumbs, and have a range of pores anterior to the anus.
G. guttatus,
Daud. has a reddish coloured body, spotted with white, and beset by round
@@@1 The following table exhibits a view of tbe geographical distribution of tbe
Geekotidee,
so far as known at this time :
@@@2 See
Erfalologie Générale,
iii. 290.
ed slightly projecting tubercles. Tlle scales on the under part of the tail are square and imbricated. Seba describes this as a Ceylonese species, and adds, that the name of 
gecko
is applied to it on account of its cry resembling that word. It is believed to occur throughout the Indian Archipelago. A belief prevails in the native country of this and other species, that an acrimonious fluid exudes from the lamellæ of the feet, and remaining on fruit, or other edible vegetation, is productive of injury to those who swallow it. A species is described by Bontius in his history of Java, under the name of Indian Salamander ; and that old author states that the Javanese are said to hold it up by the tail until it discharges a foam or sanies from the mouth, with which they poison their arrows.
Sect. 2.—Hemydactyli. Base of the toes furnished with an oval disk, formed beneath by a double row of scales 
en chevron ;
from the centre of this disk the second joint springs, and bears the third or nail at its extremity.
All the known species of the hemydactylous division have five nails on each foot, and a range of pores on each side of the anus. The scales beneath the tail are in the form of broad bands, like those of many serpents. A grayish red kind (
G. Verruculatus,
Cuv.) occurs in the southern countries of Europe. The body is beset with small, conical, slightly rounded tubercles, and circles of the same surround the tail. A nearly allied species
(G. mabuia,
Cuv.) is widely spread over the warmer parts of the new world, where it often enters dwelling-houses, occurring apparently identical both in Bengal and Pondicherry. Cuvier presumes it may have been transported thither accidentally in ships. A species more peculiar to India is
G. marginatus,
Cuv. of which the body is margined, and the tail flattened horizontally, with its edges sharp and slightly fringed.
Sect. 3.—Thecadactyli. Toes enlarged throughout their entire length, and furnished with transverse scales, which are divided by a deep longitudinal furrow, wherein the claw may lie entirely concealed.
Such as are clearly known do not want the claws except upon the thumbs. They have no pores upon the thighs, and the scales upon the tail are small. As an example, may be named the smooth, or, as it is sometimes called, the perfoliated gecko (
G. lœvis,
Daud.,
Stellio perfoliatus, 
Sclmeid.). The tail of this species in the natural or normal state is long, and surrounded by the usual fold ; but it is easily fractured, and the reproduced portion often assumes a bulbous form, with a tapering termination, not unlike a small turnip with its root. In this accidental condition it was formerly described as a distinct species, under the title of
Locerta rapicauda.
Sect. 4.—Ptyodactyli. Toes dilated only at the tips, and striated below. The dilatation is cleft, and the nail placed in the fissure. The whole of the toes are furnished with curved claws.
In some the toes are free, and the tail rounded. Such is
G. lοbatus,
Geoff., sometimes named the house-gecko. It is smooth, or at least both scales and tubercles are very small, the general colour reddish-gray speckled with brown. This species is common in houses in many of the countries on the southern and eastern parts of the Mediterranean. It is known in Cairo by the unlovely name of
αbou burs,
or 
father of the leprosy,
because it is supposed to produce that dreadful malady by poisoning provisions with its feet. Has-selquist relates that he saw at Cairo two women and a girl at the point of death, in consequence of their having eaten some cheese over which this creature chanced to crawl. He likewise mentions a man who, having laid hold of a gecko, his hand became instantaneously covered with red inflamed pustules, which were as itchy as those produced by the stinging of a nettle. Cats are said to eat these reptiles ; and they are driven from the Egyptian kitchens by the odour of garlic. The house-gecko feeds on insects, and its eggs are equal in size to a small nut. Its voice resembles that of a frog.
In others the tail is bordered on both sides by a membrane, and the feet are semi-palmated. Baron Cuvier is of opinion that they are probably aquatic. The species are truly singular in their external aspect. Such is the fimbriated gecko (
G.fimbriatus,
Cuv.), of which the form is much depressed, and the tail bordered by a lateral margin, which is also visible on the sides of the body, where, however, it becomes fringed or slashed. It is a native of Madagascar, where it is erroneously held in great dread. In Lacepède’s opinion, it connects together tlle cameleons, geckoes, and water-newts. It measures eight or nine inches in length ; and lives in trees, leaping from branch to branch. The colours of this species, like those of the cameleon, are very changeable, at least on the upper surface, the under portion being usually of a bright yellow. “ These changes,” says Dr Shaw, “ we are informed, have been observed in the living animal by Mons. Bruyeres in its native country, viz. Madagascar, where it is not very uncommon, and where, though a harmless animal, it is held in great abhorrence by the natives, who consider it of a poisonous nature, and fly from it with precipitation, pretending that it darts on their breast, and adheres with such force by its fringed membrane, that it cannot be separated from the skin without the assistance of a razor. The principal cause of this popular dread of the animal is its habit of running open mouthed towards the spectator, instead of attempting to escape when discovered. Its chief residence is on the branches of trees, where it lives on insects, holding itself secure by coiling its tail, short as it is, half round the twig on which it sits. It chiefly appears in rainy weather, when it moves with considerable agility, often springing from bough to bough. On the ground it walks but slowly, the fore-legs being shorteι than the hinder.”@@1
An equally singular species of this section is the scolloptailed gecko (
G. Caudiverbera),
which has no fringe upon the body, but a very peculiarly indented margination on each side of the tail. It is of a blackish colour, measures above a foot in length, and was found by M. Feuille in a fountain of the Cordilleras. Some confusion exists in systematic works between this species and that figured by Seba under the name of
Salamandra aquatica ex Arabia.
Sect. 5.—Spheriodactyli. Toes terminated by a small cushion without folds ; the claws retractile.
Such species as have the cushion double or notched in front are natives of the Cape of Good Hope and the East Indies. Example,
G. porphyrins,
Daud. More frequently the cushion is rounded and simple, as in the species called the spitting gecko (
G. sputator,
Lac.), a small reptile, pleasingly marked by transverse bands of brown upon a reddish ground. It inhabits houses in St Domingo. A lizard described by Sparman under the same specific name, if not identical with the species just named, no doubt pertains to this genus. It is said when disturbed by a near approach to eject from its mouth a black and acrimonious fluid into the face of the spectator, causing an inflammation of the skin, which, however, is allayed by rubbing the part affected with camphorated spirits of wine.
Finally, there are Saurians which, with all the characters
1
@@@
General Zoology,
iii 274.
of the geckoes, exhibit no enlargement of the toes, although their claws, five in number, are nevertheless retractile. They at present compose three genera, as follows :
In Stenodactvlus the tail is round, the toes striated beneath, and dentated on the edges.
Sten. guttatus
is an Egyptian species, of a gray colour, sprinkled with whitish spots; the skin smooth. In Gymnodactylus, Spix, the toes are slender and bare, and the tail rounded. Example, 
Gym. gechoides,
Spix. In Phyllurus, Cuv., the toes resemble those of the preceding ; but the tail is flattened horizontally, and shaped like a leaf. The only known species is
Ph. p!atura,
from New South Wales, described by White under the name of broad-tailed lizard.@@1 It measures about six inches in length, and is of a brownish-gray colour, beset with tubercles. (See Plate CCCCXXXII. fig. 3.)
FAMILY V—CHAMÆLEONIDÆ. CAMELEONS.
This family consists solely of the genus Chamæleo, distinguished by the following characters. The entire surface is chagrined w’ith small granular scales, the body is compressed, the dorsal edge narrow ; the tail is rounded and prehensile. There are five toes on each foot, arranged as it were in two groups, three in one, and two in the other, in some measure resembling the foot of a Scansorial bird ; but the toes of each group are connate, or enclosed within the skin, as far as the claws. The tongue is fleshy, cylindrical, extensile, and of great length. The teeth are trilobed. The eyes are large in themselves, but almost entirely covered over by the skin, except a small opening opposite the pupil ; and each eye has the power of movement independent of the other. There are no external ears, and the occiput rises in a pyramidal form. The first ribs unite with the sternum, and the succeeding ones meet each other so as to form a circle around the abdomen. The lungs are of vast extent, and according to their state of collapse or inflation, greatly affect the form and aspect of the animal. This, with its long power of abstinence, may have given rise to the common belief that it feeds on air.@@2
Cameleons are insectivorous reptiles, of which the slow pace, the extraordinary form, the awkward movements, the vivacity of eye, and the marvellous rapidity
of
tongue, have excited the wonder of mankind from the earliest ages. Their change of colour, by no means so marked or sudden as supposed, has nothing to do with the hue of the objects by which they are surrounded, but bears relation physically to the degree of light or obscurity to which they are exposed, morally to the state of their own feelings of fear or anger, and physiologically and directly to the action of the lungs upon the circulating system. “ En effet,” says Cuvier, “leur poumon les rend plus ou moins transparents, contraint plus ou moins le sang à refluer vers la peau, colore même ce fluide plus ou moins vivement, selon qu’il se remplit ou se vide d’air.” “ The general or usual colour in the chameleon,” says Dr Shaw, “ so far as I have been able to ascertain from my own observation of such as have been brought into this country in a living state, are from a bluish-ash colour (its natural tinge) to a green and sometimes yellow ish colour, spotted unequally with red. If the animal be exposed to a full sunshine, the unilluminated side generally appears, within the space of some minutes, of a pale yellow, with large rounded patches or spots of red brown. On reversing the situation of the animal the same change takes place in an opposite direction, the side which was before in the shade now becoming either brow, n or ash colour, while the other side becomes yellow and red ; but these changes are subject to much variety, both as to intensity of colours and disposition of spots.”@@3
Authors of all ages have differed greatly in opinion regarding the causes of the change of colour in camcleons. The phenomenon, though remarkable, and strongly exemplified in these creatures, is by no means peculiar to them, but occurs, as we have noted in the course of this article, among many others of the reptile race, especially in such as, the general envelope not adhering closely to the muscles, receive a portion of air beneath the skin. It is also observable in many mollusca, particularly the cuttle-fish tribe. But to recur to the cameleon. Aristotle and many other authors have maintained that the change of colour only took place when the animal inflated itself. Pliny repeats the opinion (which has since prevailed) that it assumed the colours of the bodies by which it was surrounded, with the exception of red and white. Wormius was among the first to maintain that the changes in question were due to the emotions of the reptile. Solinus assigns as the cause the reflexion of the luminous rays. Kircher supports the theory of volition and emotion. Goddard adopts the same explanation, with the addition that the colours at the same time bear a relation to neighbouring bodies. Hasselquist and Linnæus refer to the pigmentum as the cause. Finally, the majority of modern authors who have written on the subject (and their name is legion) have sought to explain the phenomenon either by the modifications of the respiratory system, by these modifications combined with the state of tlle pulmonary circulation, or by the transposition of the various layers which are believed to exist in the pigmentum.@@4
We may state briefly in regard to the geographical distribution of the cameleons, that Africa is their characteristic country. Of the fourteen species known to naturalists, the whole occur there or in the adjacent islands, especially Madagascar ; three species, however, are not exclusively African,
Chαrn. dilepis,
Leach, being found in Georgia, 
Cham, vulgaris
in the south of Europe, and
Cham, bifidus 
in continental India, the Moluccas, Isleof France, and New Holland. They are thus entirely unknown in America.
These reptiles dwell habitually among shrubs or trees. “ Nous avons observé,” says M. Bory de St Vincent, “ des caméléons en liberté, fixés sur les rameaux des arbustes, qu’ils tenaient fortement serrés entre leur doigts, à peu près comme le font les Jlerroquets dont le pied présente une certaine analogie avec les leurs ; ils étaient aussi immobiles que s’ils eussent été des imitations artificielles. Leurs yeux seulement, dont la prunelle brillait comme une pierre précieuse au milieu d’une globe blanchâtre percé d’un petit trou étincelant, roulaient en tout sens, et tandis que l’un regardait par devant, l’autre observait les objets situés en arrière. Quelquefois le mouvement anguleux d’une pâte comme disloquée, lentement suivi de celui de la suivante et du déroulement de la queue, qui servait de cinquième point d’appui au caméléon, déterminait un tardif avancement de quelques lignes. Dans cet état de paix, au milieu du feuil
@@@1
Voyage te
Λr or
South Wales,
pl. 32 ; and
Naturalist's Miscellany,
pi. 65.
@@@2 “ All which considered,” says Sir Thomas Brown, in his
Vulgar Errors,
“ severer heads will be apt enough to conceive the vulgar opinion of this animal to be not much unlike that of the
Astorni,
or men without mouths, in Pliny ; suitable unto the relation of the mares in Spain, and their Subventaneous conceptions from the western wind ; and in some way more unreasonable than the figment of
Rahican,
the famous horse in
Ariosto,
which, being conceived by flame and wind, never tasted grass, or fed on any grosser pro-vender than air ; for this way of nutrition was answerable unto the principles of his generation ; which being not airy, but gross and seminal in the
chameleon,
unto its conservation there is required a solid pasture, and a food congenerous unto the principles of its nature.”
@@@3
General Zoology,
iii. 256.
@@@4 For a summary on this subject, see a paper by Dr Spittal in the
Edin. New Phil. Jonrn.
for 1829, p. 292.
lage des lentisques, sa couleur était d’un blanc assez pur, tirant sur le jaunâtre. Saisi, il se gonflait d’abord et ne faisait nul effort pour éviter le danger ; sans doute il en sentait l’inutilité ; mais bientôt on voyait circuler sur toutes les partiés de son corps des teintes diverses dues au sang, poussé vers la peau par la dilatation de ses vastes poumons. Le caméléon, rendu à lui-même, ne tardait point à reprendre sa couleur blanchâtre que la mort rembrunit. Du reste, le plus innocent de tous les animaux, ce caméléon changeant, qui ne cherche jamais à mordre, vit de mouches qu’il guette ; lorsque celles-ci passent à sa portée, son corps, sa tête, ses membres demeurent immobiles ; mais il a calculé la portée de sa langue, il la lance comme un trait ; et l’animal ailé, malgré son agilité et la promptitude de son vol, se trouve collé au bouton visqueux qui le rapport en un clin-d’œil dans la bouche de son ennemi.
“ On a imprimé, dans la plupart des livres d’histoire naturelle, qu’on ne trouvait des caméléons que dans les parties les plus chaudes des régions intertropicales. Ces animaux s’y plaisent sans doute, mais non seulement ils dépassent les tropiques, ils s’élèvent encore beaucoup au nord dans la zone tempérée, puisque nous en avons trouvé fréquemment dans le midi de l’Espagne. L’espèce de Barbarie y est aussi commune autour de la baie de Catlix, où lorsque, pour les opérations de la siège, nous faisions abattre des pins sur la rive gauche du Guadalete, nous en trouvions communément entre les rameaux dont se formaient la cime de ces arbres. On en voit dans quelques maisons, qui demeurent fort longtemps, sans remuer, suspendus à des ficelles sur lesquelles on les a placés comme objets de curiosité ; les chats en sont assez friands, et ceux qu’on tient en captivité finissent ordinairement par les griffes de ces tigres domestiques.”@@1
The best-known species is
Cham, vulgaris,
often called the African cameleon (
Lac. Africana,
Gm.), an ill-selected name, in as far as several other kinds occur in Africa, and the species in question spreads from the south of Spain through many intermediate countries into India. The hood is pointed, and raised into a ridge on its anterior portion, the dorsal ridge is dentated as far as the middle of the back, the inferior one as far as the anus. The granules of the skin are equal and closely set. In the female the hood is of smaller size, and the dentations of the ridge less strongly marked. It is to this species, which measures about a foot and a half in length, that our preceding quotations apply, and that is also referred to in most of the general observations on cameleons found in books. See Plate CCCCXXXII. fig. 1.
The female deposits her eggs to the number of thirty, in an excavation which she hollow’s in the ground, and afterwards covers over with loose earth, “ servendosi,” says Va-lisnieri, “ a questo lavoro delle sole zampe di dlietro, come i gatti, quando nascondono et cuoprono Ie loro sozzure, non contenta della cavata terra vi ramasso e ammonticello delle foglie secche, della paglia, e degli Stecchetti avendovi inal-zato sopra una collinetta di copertura.@@2
We shall here mention briefly a few of the most distinctly known of the other species of the genus.3
Cham, tigris,
Cuv., has the hood or helmet small, and is distinguished by a compressed dentated wattle beneath the end of the lower jaw. Its body is beset with black points, and the granules are fine and equal. It inhabits the Seychelle Islands. An allied species (
Cham, verrucosus,
Cuv.) has larger granules mingled with the others, and there is a series of parallel warts on the sides of the back. It is a native of the Mauritius.
Cham, pumi!us,
Daud., has the hood directed backwards, and scattered warts upon the sides, limbs, and tail ; and beneath the throat are numerous compressed finely-toothed wattles, which vary in different individuals. It occurs in the south of Africa, the Isle of France, and the Seychelles. Cuvier is of opinion, that
Cham. Seiehelleusis
of Khul is merely the female of this species. The Senegal kind,
Cham, planiceps,
Merr.
(Lac. chameleon,
Gm.), has the hood flattened, almost without ridge, and horizontally of a parabolic form. It occurs in Barbary, and has likewise been seen in Georgia.
Cham, pardalis,
Cuv., from the Isle of France, is marked irregularly with black round spots, bordered with white. A peculiar species from the Moluccas is distinguished by two large compressed prominences projecting in front of the muzzle. It is the
Cham, bifurcus
of M. Brogniart.
FAMILY VL—SCINCIDÆ.
Distinguishable by their short legs, their unextensile tongue, and their scales of equal size, which cover the body and tail like tiles.
In the genus Scinccs, Daud., the legs are rather short, the body of almost equal size with the tail, without any occipital enlargement, crest, or dewlap, the scales uniform, shining, and disposed like those of a carp. Some of the species assume a fusiform or spindle shape, others are nearly cylindrical, and more or less lengthened, resembling certain serpents, especially those of the genus
Anguis,
with which they are likewise connected by several internal relations. The tongue is fleshy, little extensile, and but slightly cleft; and the jaws are furnished all around with small close-set teeth. The toes are free.
A few have teeth upon the palate. Of these is the common or officinal scink
(Sc. officinalis,
Schn.,
Lac. scincus,
Linn.), which measures six or eight inches in length. The tail is shorter than the body, and the proportional length considerable from the snout to the shoulder. The general colour is a silvery yellow hue, with transverse blackish bands. It is very abundant in Libya, Syria, Arabia, and Egypt, and is frequently imported from Alexandria into Europe. It frequents rather dry and sandy soils, and is remarkable for the extraordinary rapidity with which it burrows, vanishing almost instantaneously, and seeming, as Bruce has well expressed it, “ rather to have found a hole than to have made one.” This is the reptile called
el αdda
by the Arabs. It was once held in high estimation as an article in the Materia Medica, its flesh being regarded as advantageous in leprous and many other cases. A much larger species (Sc.
Cyprius) 
occurs in the Levant, and some of the Mediterranean Islands, 
Sc. rufescens
is widely spread over India, and
Sc. triυitta-tus
is common at the Cape of Good Hope. To this group also belongs the galley-wasp of Jamaica
(Sc. occidua, 
Shaw), a large reptile of nearly two feet in length. We are not acquainted with its modern history, and doubt its poisonous properties, though Browne, in his Natural History of Jamaica, informs us that it is reckoned the most vene-mous reptile in the island, and that it is believed no creature can recover from its bite. The author, how, ever, justly regards this as a popular error.
Other species of this genus have no teeth upon the palate. Such is
Sc. ocellatus,
Schneid., well known in the southern countries of Europe, the Mediterranean Islands, Egypt, &c. The West Indies, the Moluccas, and New Holland, produce analogous kinds, some of them remarkable for their size.
The genus Seps of Daudin differs from the preceding in having the body so elongated as to resemble that of a serpent (a conformation well expressed by the names
Lacerta
@@@1
Diction. Class. d'IIist. Nat.,
iii. 96.    
2 Isloria del Carneleonte Afrieano.
@@@2 See a paper by Mr Gray, in tbe
Philosophical Magaxine,
vol. ii. p. 209 ; and
Erpétologie Générale,
iii. 203.
serpens, Anguis quadrupes,
&c. which certain species bore); their legs are extremely small, and the two pairs placed at a great distance from each other. (See Plate CCCCXXXII. fig. 4.) The lungs in this genus begin to exhibit an inequality of size. Indeed, we may here observe, that in the few remaining groups of Saurian reptiles with which we are still to be engaged, there is a manifest approximation to the true serpents or ophidian race, in the diminution of the feet, the entire disappearance, in certain species, of either the anterior or posterior pair, and the elongated form of the body. Indeed, on the one hand,
Lacerta αpodα
of Pallas is actually now classed with the Ophidians (being placed at their head), although on each side of the anus there is a prominence containing a small bone analogous to the femur, and pertaining to a true pelvis concealed beneath the skin ; while on the other, certain systematic writers range our 
Anguis fragilis,
and other snakes usually so called, among the Saurian reptiles. But to return to our remaining genera, which may really be said to hold their legs and feet by a precarious tenure,so subjectare they to variation—the five-toed seps («S'.
Pentadactylus, Lac. serpens,
Linn.) inhabits
tlle 
East Indies, while a four-toed species (N.
tetradactylus),
and a third with only three toes («S’,
tridactylus),
both being viviparous, occur in the Isle de Crès. Another three-toed species (N.
chaleides)
is native to tlle south of Europe, and is named
cecella
by the Italians. It dwells in meadows, feeding on spiders, slugs, &c. and runs rapidly by means of a snake-like wriggling motion, without using its feet. It is also viviparous. A more peculiar kind, known under the name of serpent-lizard («S',
monodαctylus, Lac. anguina, 
Linn.), occurs at the Cape of Good Hope. Its legs are nothing more than small footless undivided appendages. This is the
vermis Scrpcntiformis ex Africa
of Seba, said by some authors to be found “ in great plenty in the water and about the rocks in Table Bay.”
The genus Bipes, Lacep., makes a still nearer approach to the serpents, as its name indicates. It scarcely differs from
Seps,
except in the entire absence of the fore-legs. It forms as it were the stepping-stone to
Anguis.
(See Plate CCCCXXXIL fig. 5.) A species from New Holland 
(B. Iepidopoda,
Lacep.), examined by Baron Cuvier, although its hinder extremities showed themselves externally only under the form of a pair of small oblong scaly plates, was yet found on dissection to possess a femur, tibia, peroneum, and four metatarsal bones without phalanges. To this genus likewise belongs an African species, the
Anguis bipes, 
Linn., and another of larger size from Brazil, described by Spix under the name of
Pygopus cariοcocca.
The genus called Ciialcides by Daudin is likewise characterized by a long and serpent-like body, but there are four legs (as in
Seps),
and the scales, instead of overlapping like tiles, are rectangular, and form transverse bands, which do not encroach upon each other. See Plate CCCCXXXIL fig. 6.
Certain species have a groove on each side of the body, and the tympanum still very obvious. Of thcse, an East Indian kind(
Chal. seps, Lac. seps,
Linn.) has five toes, while another ( C, ∕ια∕.
tetradactylus)
has only four. Others have the tympanum concealed, and conduct directly to
Chirotes,
and through it to the ophidian genus
Arnphisbwna.
Examples, 
ChaL Pentadactylus,
which, as its name implies, is a fivetoed species, and
Chab Iwtcrodactylus (Het. imbricatus, 
Spix), which has four toes to the front feet and five to the hinder.
Chal. abdominalis,
Thunberg, has four toes on each foot. Lastly,
Chal.flavescens,
Gray
(Chαl. mono-dactylus,
Daudin), is distinguished by five anterior and three posterior toes, so reduced in size as to resemble small tubercles, and so ill defined by nature (to our perceptions, though no doubt wisely formed in relation to the end in view) that zoologists still differ as to their exact amount. The species alluded to is native to Guiana.
The genus Chirotes, Cuv. resembles
Chalcides
in its verticillated scales, and is allied to
Amphisbwna
by the blunted form of its head ; but it is distinguished from the former by the absence of the hind legs, and from the latter by the presence of the fore ones. (See Plate CCCCXXXIL fig. 7.) The only known species is the lumbriciform lizard of Shaw (
Chir. Iumbricoides,—Canaliculatus
of Lac
.),
a native of Mexico, and first described by Lacépède. It has two short anterior feet (each with four toes, and the rudiments of a fifth), well organized interiorly, and attached to a small sternum by means of shoulder-blades and clavicles ; but the head, vertebræ, and the general skeleton, closely resemble those of the genus Amphisbæna. It is of a flesh colour, and measures eight or ten inches long, with a circumference like that of the little finger. It is surrounded by about 220 semi-rings upon the back, and as many on the abdomen, which meet upon the sides in alternation. The tongue of this species is but slightly extensile, and terminates in two little horny points. Its eye is extremely small, and the tympanum invisible outwardly, being covered by the skin. On dissection Baron Cuvier could detect in this reptile only a single large lung, with the vestige of a small one, as in serpents. It preys on insects.
Order IIU-OPHIDIA. OPHIDIAN REPTILES.
This great division is distinguished by the absence of legs and other external members, and includes all manner of snakes and serpents. The expected completion of the 
Erpétologie Générale
of MM. Duméril and Bibron would have enabled us to present a more satisfactory sketch of their history and habits (which have been greatly embroiled by many modern authors), than we can otherwise attain to ; but the French writers just named have not as yet published the result of their labours among the ophidian tribes. In the mean time, we think it advisable to delay their consideration to a future time. Therefore see in this work the term Serpents.
Order IV.—BATRACHIA. BATRACHIAN REPTILES.
We now proceed to the fourth order of the class Reptilia, the Batrachia, a name derived from Bαrjαχof,
a frog,
and expressive of a general resemblance which very distinctly marks the majority, although in truth many resemble lizards, and a few have more the appearance of eels or serpents. This tribe is one of the most singular in nature ; for, besides the naked body and remarkable sanguineous circulation, they possess another peculiarity, which is regarded by many naturalists as sufficient to constitute them a distinct class rather than an order, viz. the change of form which they undergo in their progress from the young to the adult state.
In this concluding order are ranked all those reptiles which have neither the carapace of the Chelonia nor the scales of the other orders.@@1 Their bodies therefore are naked ; their head is without any distinct neck or division ; their toes are always distinct and without claws ; they have no external organs of reproduction, and usually undergo metamorphoses. This change of form constitutes the Ba-trachia the principal step in the transition between terrestrial and aquatic vertebrata or fishes, and is one of the most singular phenomena presented by animal life. Bred
1
@@@ A curious link, we perceive, has recently been discovered in South America, between the Batraehia and the Chelonia1 which is nothing less than a frog furnished with a carapace and plastron.
after the manner of fishes, from spawn-like ova., they possess for a time the essential characters of the finny race ; and yet, on the lapse of a few brief weeks, their pisciform appearance vanishes, and leaving the water, they crawl or leap about upon the earth, or climbing the stems of forest trees, they dwell among the umbrageous branches. In some the transition state, if we may say so, continues permanent, the gills existing simultaneously with feeble lungs, and a tail being combined with short external members. Of the structure of these curious animals more will be said hereafter.
The
ovum
or
egg
of these reptiles is a round mass of transparent nutritive jelly, in the centre of which appears a small black globule. By degrees this shapeless globule exhibits the appearance of a head and tail, and in this state it emerges from its prison, and moves about briskly in the water. It is provided with a long fleshy tail, and a small horny beak, and has no other visible member, except two feathery tufts on the sides of the neck, which float loosely, and without protection, in the surrounding fluid. These, however, are mere temporary organs ; for they serve the purpose of respiration only until the proper gills are formed, and then shrink or disappear.@@1 The true gills or branchiæ are contained within the body, three or four in number on each side, constructed on a plan similar to those of fishes ; the water entering by the mouth, and escaping in some species by two openings, and in others by one only. Retaining their aquatic constitution, the
tadpoles
(as in this intermediate state they are often called) rapidly increase in size and activity tor some weeks. In the mean time the legs, of which no trace was at first apparent, have commenced their growth. The hind ones are the first to make their appearance externally, although the anterior pair are as soon developed, and may be seen at an early period folded beneath their transparent covering. The animal at this period wears a very ambiguous appearance, partaking both of the form of the frog and lizard, and swimming as well by the inflection of the tail as by the irregular impulse of the feet.@@2 At this time the beak falls off, and the true jaws, which originally were hid under the skin, appear. The eye, too, which had been seen only through a transparent spot in the tadpole’s skin, appears complete and prominent. This interval is also employed in acquiring the faculty of respiring atmospheric air. The animal every now and then rises to the surface and takes a mouthful of air, which is received into the newly formed lungs, and then discharged. When the necessary internal changes are at length completed, the tail, which has now become a useless member, diminishes and disappears. The gills, too, have by this time shrunk, their function being superseded by the lungs, and the animal emerging from the water, begins a new mode of existence as a perfect reptile.
During its aquatic state the tadpole lives principally on vegetable food, but in its perfect form much more upon various insects ; and there is a remarkable and corresponding change in its digestive organs, which assume the character of those of a carnivorous creature. Most of the Batrachia, we may also remark, are oviparous, whilst not a few of them are ovo-viviparous. It should, moreover,
be observed, that most of the species of this group, during their aquatic condition, possess the extraordinary power of suffering the privation of a part, or the whole, of one or more of their members without vital injury, and of afterwards renewing them as if no loss had been endured ; a property of which we have already made mention in our summary account of lizards, and to which we may again briefly return in our notice of the aquatic salamander
We shall now take a nearer view of the vascular and respiratory systems of these animals. The
circulation,
in the tadpole state, is in every respect analogous to that of fishes : the blood is transmitted from a simple bilocular or twτ o-lobed heart to the branchial arches, and, after
aeration 
by the water, returns, and is circulated through the system. The transition from this condition to that which the vascular organs present in the perfect reptile state is very striking. Originally three or four branchial trunks pass off from each side of the heart, and terminate in the minute network of the gills ; from this network the returning vessels take their origin, one from each of the gills, the first of which goes to the head, and the other two conjoining, convey the blood to the rest of the system, as in fishes. But in addition to these vessels, there are some small undeveloped ones, which effect a communication between the vessels which go to the gills and those which return from them ; as also another which, given off from tlle heart, unites with the aorta, to be distributed to the as yet rudimentary lungs. After the metamorphosis is begun, the branches which connect the arteries of the gills with the returning veins are greatly enlarged, so that a part of the blood flow's continuously through them without proceeding to the gills at all, and the proper branchial vessels relatively diminish ; and the last-named trunk, which was thc smallest of all, becomes the largest, and an increased proportion of blood is sent to the lungs. By a continuance of these changes, the branchial vessels are finally obliterated, and the communicating branches, at Hrstonlysecondary and irregular, now constitute part of the continuous and permanent system of circulation.
The
respiration
of the Batrachia, after they have arrived at their permanent mode of existence, is not less singular than their circulation ; and this chiefly in two particulars,— as it regards thc lungs, and the function of the skin. If we take a frog, for example,@@1 and watch its respiration, we cannot readily discover that it breathes at all ; for it never opens its mouth to receive air, and there is no motion of the sides to indicate that it respires ; and yet, on any sudden alarm, we see the animal blowing itself up, as if by some internal power, though its mouth all the while continues closed. We may perceive, however, that its throat is in frequent motion, as if the frog were economizing its mouthful of air, and transferring it backwards and forwards between its mouth and lungs ; and if we direct our attention to the nostrils, we may observe in them a twisting motion at each movement of the jaws ; for it is through the nostrils that the frog receives all the air which it breathes. The jaws are never open but for the purpose of eating ; and the sides of the mouth form a sort of bellows, of which the nostrils
1
@@@ See Roget's
Bridgcreater Treatise,
ii. 330.
are the inlets ; and by their alternate contraction and relaxation, the air is swallowed and forced into the windpipe, so as to inflate the lungs. The tongue also contributes its share in carrying on this function. This organ is remarkable in its connection, being fixed very differently in these from what it is in most other animals. Its root is not situated deep down the throat, but is attached superficially at the fore-part of the lower jaw ; it is remarkably long, and instead of inclining forward, is turned backwards, extending down the throat, and so acts as a valve, affecting the entrance and exit of air from the lungs. If the mouth of the frog be forcibly kept open, it is suffocated, because it is deprived of the power of swallowing the required air ; and if the nostrils be closed, it in like manner can no longer breathe. Hence the frog and allied genera may be said rather to swallow air than to inhale it. Respiration, again, is not carried on, as in most animals, by the chest, but by the compression of the muscles of the abdomen ; and if these are in any way injured or destroyed, the breathing ceases, and the individual speedily dies. Nor is the function of respiration in the Batrachia confined to the lungs ; for the blood which circulates through the capillaries of the skin is likewise aerated by communication with the atmosphere. This kind of respiration, closely connected with the extraordinary perspiration for which these animals are celebrated, is of such importance to them, that if impeded by covering the skin with oil or other unctuous substance, death will take place almost as soon as if the lungs were removed ; and, on the other hand, the animal may be supported by it alone, for a considerable time, if the temperature be not too high,—a physiological fact which, we apprehend, goes a great way to account for the extraordinary power possessed by many of these creatures (to which we shall afterwards allude), of enduring, without detriment, a long protracted burial, enclosed in wood or stone
The
reproductive act
in these reptiles, somewhat intermediate between what occurs in terrestrial animals and fishes, is so remarkable that it must not be passed by. We shall borrow our illustration from what occurs in the frog, the genus by much the best known in the order. The embraces of the male occur only once a year, and in spring. As soon as the sun’s influence is felt in their wintry resorts, the black spongy knob at the base of the thumb of the male augments in size, and his abdomen swells. On finding his mate, he mounts on her back, extends his arms round her chest, and so locks the fingers of his hands into each other, that, from the peculiar structure, they cannot be separated. The two animals are thus inseparably joined, and so live and swim together for fifteen or tw, enty days, or even for a month. Ifi under these circumstances, the thumbs be cut off, the junction is at an end ; but if the animal be decapitated, the grasping apparatus still performs its mechanical office. During the period of this long embrace, the spawn, as in fish, escapes in long floating cords or chaplets, of a gclatinous fluid, crowded with the ova, which is bedewed with the milt of the male. When the spawning is completed, the male frog is able to dismount, the fingers speedily regaining their flexibility, and the thumbs their ordinary form. The reproductive power is very great, the ova amounting to from 600 to upwards of 1000. Swammerdam once reckoned 1100 from a single individual, and Montbeiliard 1300.
It is remarked that these animals live to a great age, if fortunate enough to escape the attacks of their enemies ; an instance will be given in the sequel, of an individual whose history was traced for forty years. Their foes, however, are very numerous. A number of quadrupeds, birds, reptiles, and fishes, live habitually at their expense. Serpents, pikes, vultures, and storks, destroy an immense number of them. Without the intervention of the last-named birds, Egypt, in particular, would swarm with frogs. In several countries, certain species are sought after by man ; and they are considered by competent judges as an agreeable and wholesome food. The Batrachia have no weapons either of offence or defence. Taken as an order, they are certainly as harmless to man as any tribe of animals ; and, as has been well remarked, though the forms of many of tbe species offend our notions of beauty, and their love-songs have gained them the character of “ horrible musicians,” there is certainly nothing to justify the aversion and distrust with which they are so usually regarded.
The Batrachia generally feed upon the larvæ of aquatlc insects, on worms, small mollusca, flies, &c., and always choose a prey which is living and in motion. Dead and motionless animals are rejected by them. To obtain their prey, they often remain fixed in one situation, with wonderful patience, watching till they believe it is within their reach, and then darting at it with great rapidity, they at the same time protrude their lengthened tongue, bedewed all over with a viscid fluid. If we watch a frog when an insect has approached sufficiently near it, we are surprised to observe the insect suddenly disappear without our being able to perceive what has become of it. This arises from the frog having darted its tongue upon its victim with such extreme quickness, and again withdrawn it with the adhering insect, that it is scarcely possible for the eye to follow it in motion. Thus from the nature of their food, so far from being prejudicial, they are very useful in gardens, by extensively destroying those small slugs, &c. which are so detrimental to plants of every kind.
FAMILY RANIDÆ.@@1 FROGS IN GENERAL.
All the members of the frog family (corresponding to the great genus Rana of Linnæus), have in their perfect state four extremities and no tail. Their head is flat, their muzzle rounded, their mouth very large. In the greater number the tongue is not attached to the deeper part of the throat, but to the edge of the lower jaw, and thence proceeds backwards, and down the throat. Their front feet have only four toes, and their hind five, sometimes exhibiting the rudiments of a sixth.
We cannot better bespeak a favourable conslderation for this despised group than in the words of an enthusiastic naturalist. “ We shall have considerable difficulty,” says the eloquent Lacépède, “ in assigning to frogs the place which they should occupy in the minds of our readers, such as it really is in nature ; but it is not less true, that if toads had never existed, if we had not before our eye this horrid object of comparison, which caricatures by its resemblance, as it defiles by its approach, the frog would appear to us as agreeable from its conformation, as distinguished by its qualities, and interesting from the phenomena it exhibits at the different periods of its existence. We would behold it as a useful animal, from which we have nothing to fear, whose instinct is harmless, which unites an elegant form with supple and slender limbs, and is adorned with pleasing colours, rendered more vivid from the kind of natural varnish with which the animal is constitutionally provided. And who can regard with pain a being whose form is light, whose movements are nimble, whose attitudes are graceful ? Let us not deprive ourselves ot an additional source of pleasure;
@@@1 Although the patronymic termination in ∙Ac is not classically correct in cases where the primitive has a feminine termination, we nevertheless follow in this matter the suggestion of Mr Kirby, and the example of Mr Macleav, who regards it as preferable to any other yet devised, as well on account of uniformity, as
euphonia gratta.
See
Horce Entomologica;,
p. 23.
and, in our peregrinations through the smiling fields, let us not regret to see the banks of rivulets adorned by the colours of these harmless creatures, and animated by their light and lively gambols. Let us contemplate their little manœuvres ; observe them in the midst of stilly lakes, the solitude of which they diminish without troubling the repose ; see them exhibit, under sheets of water, the most agreeable tints, cleave the bosom of the tranquil stream, and vary its silvery surface with many a circling furrow.”
In summer these Ranidæ are usually found in humid places, in grassy meadows, and on the banks of streamlets, into which, when approached, they usually leap and dive. They swim admirably, by means of their webbed hind feet. Frequently at the close of warm rains they spread themselves through the country, and are so numerous as to be crowded and pressed against each other in places where they had never been observed before. To this appearance is owing the popular belief of
rains of frogs,
which undoubtedly is usually a mistake ; but raised by a hurricane, and thereby transported to a great distance, such an occurrence is yet, we believe, quite within the range of possibility. As soon as the summer is over, and the weather begins to get cold, these reptiles lose their natural activity, and give over feeding. When the cold becomes more considerable, they protect themselves from its rigour by sinking into the mud in deep water, in the holes of fountains, and even in the earth. The quantities which sometimes thus collect in one place are so considerable, that they have been known to cover the soil to a foot in depth, and thousands may be taken in a few minutes. Hearne informs us, in his voyage to the Icy Sea of North America, that he many times found under the moss frozen frogs, whose legs might be broken without their exhibiting any sign of life, but which resumed their energy with returning warmth.
Genus Rana, Laurenti, Cuv.
Frogs proper.
This first genus of the Ranidæ has the body slender, the hind feet very long, and more or less webbed ; their skin is smooth ; their upper jaw is furnished all round with a row of minute sharp teeth, and there is an interrupted transverse range in the middle of the palate. The males have on each side, beneath the ears, a fine membranaceous bag, which they expand with air when they croak. They leap and swim admirably. See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 1.
The skeleton of the frogs does not present any trace of ribs ; and the breast-bone, very large, with collar-bones attached, is merely cartilaginous. The cranium is almost prism shaped, flattened above, and very broad behind, and is less round than in the toads. The vertebræ are ten in number. The muscles have a considerable resemblance in arrangement to those of man, and are very strong, very irritable, and very sensible to the action of galvanism. The muzzle in frogs is somewhat more acute than that of toads ; and the nostrils are visible at the summit. Their orbits are large, and are directed upwards ; the eye is large and brilliant, and surrounded by a bright golden circle. The lids are three in number, and all horizontal ; the upper one is a mere projection of the skin ; the lower is more mobile ; and the third, which is quite transparent, moves from below’ upwards, and is most of all in action. Wc have already dwelt so fully on the habits of the whole group, that little requires to be added in this place. It is, however, a curious circumstance, that these animals, like many other inhabitants of the water, can become habituated to the very high temperatures of thermal springs. Thus Reaumur mentions that he had known one found alive in Waterabout IIlo Fahrenheit; and Spallanzani mentions an example of this kind where, in the baths of Pisa, they were exposed to a temperature of 138°.
The power of voice in frogs, commonly called croaking, is exercised by the different species in very different degrees ; a remark which is also applicable to the genus
BuJb 
in their more limited range of expression. It is more par-
ticularl y during the time of rain, and in hot days, in the evening and morning, that they indulge in their harmonious concert. The noise which they make becomes sometimes insupportable. It is principally the males which croak ; their voice being stronger in consequence of the two sacs which they possess on the sides of the neck, and which swell out under the effort. As for the female, she has only a slight swelling in her throat, and produces but a feeble note. During the feudal regime in France, when all the castles were surrounded by water, it is said that it was the business of the serfs to attack the frogs, and prevent them from disturbing the morning repose of the lordly inmates.
It is rather remarkable that these creatures should be so much esteemed as delicious food in some countries, and so much despised and even abhorred in others. The ancients appear not to have discovered the nutritive virtues of frogs, nor their value in the science of gastronomy. In the sixteenth century, however, they were served up at the best tables on the continent. In Britain this kind of aliment is held in detestation, whilst in France and other European countries a very great consumption takes place. They are captured in various ways ; either with lines, or small nets, or by means of a rake. Sometimes they are pursued at night, and with torches, the light of which attracts them. In Vienna, where they are rather favourites, they are fattened in
froggeries
constructed for the express purpose. Though one species of frog is called par excellence the 
edible,
yet several others partake of this distinction. In Germany all parts of these animals are eaten, the skin and offals excepted. In France it is the hinder quarters alone which are used. They are dressed like fish, with white sauce, and in wine, or they are fried or even spitted. A foreign species of great size, to be afterwards mentioned 
(R. grunniens),
which abounds in the West Indies, is often domesticated there for the use of tlle table. The flesh is white and delicate ; it is fricasseed like fow l ; and two frogs make a good dish. Nor is it
frogs proper
alone which are used in this way. The abhorred toads are habitually eaten by the negroes, both in Africa and America ; and there seems to be little doubt that even in Paris the thighs of these animals are constantly sold for those of frogs.
We now proceed to a rapid sketch of the most remarkable species.
R. esculenta,
Linn. The
edible frog, green frog,
or
common frog of France.
The colours of the green frog vary so much, that different individuals might almost be taken for a diversity of species. It is often of a beautiful green colour, spotted with black, with three yellow stripes on the back, and the belly yellowish. This description generally holds good in the environs of Paris. Those in the rivers and ditches of Lombardy have the back of a uniform green colour. Another variety, which has been observed in Holland, has the lips black, round black spots on its sides, and the belly entirely white ; in Provence it has a reddish belly ; and in the neighbourhood of Beauvois, sombre green, with transverse brownish spots upon the limbs, is found to be the prevailing hue. It varies in size from two to three inches, measured from the snout to the end of the body. It abounds in all dead and still waters, and is pre-eminent for its croaking powers. It is very common in France, Italy, and Germany ; but is rare in Britain. It supplies, in the former countries, a very wholesome and agreeable food. It deposits its ova in small bundles, in the pools. This species seldom removes far from the margin of some quiet streamlet, into which it plunges on the least noise. It swims in the same manner as man, with its head above tlle surface. It may be often seen amusing itself among aquatic plants, darting after insects on the wing, mounting upon the umbrageous leaves, or squatted on the bank, with its snout projecting as if to court the rays of the sun, in which it delights, even during the most scorching days. It is indeed
most agile in this kind of weather, and leaps with the greatest liveliness. It feeds solely upon living objects, and will swallow no animal whose motions do not prove it to be in life. Its voracity is so extreme, that it may be captured with almost anything which is made to move, and will dart at a hook when baited with a rose or poppy leaf. With the warmth of autumn the gaiety of the green frog ceases ; and as winter becomes severe, it entirely disappears, plunging deep into the mud to secure an asylum from the cold. Here they often crowd together, as if for the purpose of keeping each other warm.
JR. temporaria,
Linn. ;
Pfusca terrestris,
Roes. The
common frog of Britain.
The
red frog
of the French. This species, the most common in Britain, and also abundant throughout Europe, has the same elegant and slender form as the preceding, and differs from it merely in its colour, which is often of a russet hue, like that of decayed leaves, varied in front with black spots between its brilliant eyes and upper lip. These spots sometimes assume the form of whiskers passing down the neck. It is of the same size as the preceding, and is met with from early spring-time till towards the close of autumn, leaping in woods and meadows, sheltering itself beneath hedges, and penetrating into cottage-gardens, where it ought to be protected, as waging deadly war with destructive snails and insects. It proves quite as good eating as the green frog, and in France is often placed upon the table. It is by no means so great a croaker as the preceding species ; and those accustomed to the latter think it does not croak at all. It is most generally found upon land in the summer season ; and while the green frog rarely abandons the immediate neighbourhood of still or gently flowing waters, this species is often found in brushwood, remote from the banks of streams. At the approach of winter it retires into fountains and ponds of pure water, usually, it is alleged, avoiding miry places. Nor does it bury itself in mud like its congener ; for numbers of these frogs may be taken during the winter by making holes in the ice. It lays its ova at a later season than the green frog, and the development of its tadpole is slower. Like the preceding, it presents many varieties of colour, which it would be tedious here to name.
Under the appellation of
Pcultripes,
Cuv., may be noted a frog which occurs in the south of France, bespeckled with black spots, its feet extensively webbed, and especially remarkable for having a vestige of a sixth toe, armed with a homy and cutting nail. The spotted frog
(R. punctata, 
Daudin) occurs in the neighbourhood of Faris, though not very common. It rarely exceeds an inch in length. Its gray colour is relieved by a number of green spots over the body, and a black spot behind the eye, and it is said to change its colour when alarmed. Its toes are only partially webbed. The folded frog
(R. plicata,
Daudin) is found in the most southern parts of France. It is of the same diminutive size as the last, of a brown colour above, and gray beneath ; the fingers quite free, the toes semi-palmated. It is particularly distinguished by having two folds of the skin on each flank ; and there are four large brown spots on the chest and arms. Our knowledge of the
brawling frog (R. cbιrnitαns,
Bosc) is due to the indefatigable Bosc, who discovered it in the marshes near Charlestown, United States. It is about two inches long, of a dull ash colour, spotted with black, the upper lip green. Its vivacity is extreme, and it is by far the most lively of all known frogs, so that it is extremely difficult to catch it if it once makes its escape. It does not remove far from water, and when hunted, shoots into the stream with a sharp cry. Its continual croak is almost insupportable.
The
bull-frog
of the Americans, /?.
pipiens,
Linn., is one of the largest species of the genus, being three or four inches broad, and six or eight long; and when measured with extended legs, its entire length is about eighteen inches. The hind limbs are long, stout, and deeply palmated. It is of a dull green colour, varied with black, and relieved by a coppery yellow circle which surrounds the tympanum, and marks the situation of the ear. It abounds in Carolina and Virginia, remaining at the entrance of its hole, near some fountain, into which it precipitates itself on the least alarm. Catesby affirms that it utters sounds very much resembling the bellowing of a bull, and with greater force when at tlle bottom of the water. During the summer evenings, and in dry weather, it makes indeed a most astounding noise. It is exceedingly partial to young ducks and goslings, which it swallows whole, and will proceed to a considerable distance from its home in search of prey. As the voracity of this species is proportioned to its bulk, it is rare to find more than a single pair in each marsh. This frog is very difficult to catch ; it is only during the night, and when it removes a little from its haunt, that it is possible to procure an individual. When on level ground it makes leaps of from six to eight feet in length. Baron Cuvier justly remarks, that several species go under the general name of bull-frog in America.
The
grunting frog, R. grunniens,
Daudin, is of the same large dimensions as the preceding, and inhabits the Floridas and the West Indies, where it has been accurately observed by M. Moreau de Jonnès. It is vulgarly designated a toad, because it frequents shady and humid places, and not the vicinity of waters, as the other frogs. In its habits it is nocturnal, and its strength is so great that at a single spring it can clear a wall five feet high. It is very torpid during the dry season, but resumes its vivacity when the rains set in. It is tllis frog which is often domesticated in the West Indies for the use of the table, and becomes tolerably familiar ; the flesh is white and delicate, and two frogs form a very good dish. The
argus flog
of Shaw,
R. Ocellata,
Linn., is often mistaken for the preceding. It inhabits Pennsylvania and Carolina, and was first figured by Seba. It is one of the largest of the genus, equalling if not exceeding the bull-frog in size, and being stronger; it is ofa pale reddish-brown colour, striped with chestnut ; the feet are unwebbed, and each joint is furnished with a kind of tubercle. The
laughing frog, R. ridibunda,
Grael1 according to Pallas, is common about the Ural and the Caspian Sea. It is of great size, weighing half a pound. It always keeps in the water, and in the evening utters its croakings in a way that resembles a horselaugh. The
paradoxical flog, R. ParadoXica,
Linn., the jackie of the French, is remarkable for the great size of its tadpole state in proportion to the adult animal. The loss of its enormous tail, and of the envelopes of its body, induces a great diminution in bulk ; its length in the tadpole state being seven or eight inches, while that of the body when transformed is only three. Thus many of the first observers were led to the conclusion that it was the frog which was metamorphosed into the tadpole, or, as they declared, into a fish. This species is green, spotted with brown, and is especially recognised by irregular stripes of a brown colour running along the limbs. The male has a gular sac, and the hind foot is provided with a supplemental toe. It inhabits Guiana. Our readers will bear in mind that in the preceding list we have not attempted more than to give a specimen of the distinctive characters and habits of some of the best-established species. Many more have been described and catalogued in systematic works.
Genus Ceratophris, Boie, Cuvier. This genus is distinguished by the great size of the head, by the skin being rough, and engrained in whole or in part, and by a membranous or horn-like prominence on each eye-lid. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 2.) In certain species the tympanum is hid beneath the skin. The species are found in South America and Asia. The
horned flog, C. varius,
Boié, 
Rana cornuta,
Seba, is certainly one of the most singular of
the Batrachia, having an aspect exceedingly deformed. This arises not so much from the general shape of the animal, as from the extraordinary structure of the upper eyelids, which are so formed as to resemble a pair of strange sharp-pointed horns, while the width of the mouth exceeds that of its congeners, and equals half the length of its body. Seba, in fact, describes it as having two sharp horns on its head, within which its eyes are situated ; and Schneider more accurately, as a pair of accuminated callous processes, of a conical shape, placed upon the eyelids. The colour is grayish yellow, striped with brown. The body is rough, with pointed spines. The head is very large and thick, and the tongue proportionably so. Baron Cuvier assigns five species to this genus, from the works of Seba, Daudin, Spix1 and Prince Maximilian. In Mr Gray’s catalogue an additional one is furnished by Mr Wagler, the habitat of which is Asia.
Genus Dactylethba, Cuv. The south of Africa, according to Cuvier, produces a group of Batrachians which resemble the frogs in their teeth, their smooth skin, their pointed toes, those of the hind feet being deeply webbed, and the inner three having their extremity enveloped in a conical nail, which is black ; their head is small, and their mouth not very large. The tongue, attached deep in the throat, is fleshy and large ; their tympanum not apparent. These numerous distinctive characters have induced the baron to constitute a new genus under the above name, from 3αxruλ)j3jα, a
thimble.
The
smooth toad, crapaud lisse 
of Daudin
CPipa bufonia
of Merrem), belongs to it.
Genus Hyla, Laurenti ;
Calamita,
Schn. The
tree-frogs
of the English,—
Rainettes
of French authors. The Hylæ were first separated from the frogs and toads by Laurenti, and his arrangement is now universally followed. They differ from the other genera in having all the extremities of their toes enlarged, and rounded into a kind of disk or cushion, usually covered with a viscid humour, which enables them to attach themselves firmly to foreign bodies, and to climb trees. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 3.) Trees, in fact, constitute their abode during the whole of summer, and there they hunt for food. They, however, produce their ova in water, and shelter themselves in the mud during winter. They have a gular pouch, and are good croakers.
The disks with which the toes of the tree-frogs are provided are simply fleshy, and in tlle form of lentils. Examined with the microscope, they appear like porous sieves, from which a glutinous fluid slowly exudes ; they are usually somewhat concave, and are sometimes furnished with a distinct fold. By means of this apparatus the species can attach themselves to smooth surfaces ; they can leap from branch to branch, and can traverse twigs when agitated by the wind. They may be regarded as among the most nimble of their kind. They are, however, more tranquil than many, and watch most patiently for prey. In the day time, and especially when the sun’s heat is great, they are said to shelter themselves among the thick foliage, putting themselves in motion on the approach of evening, and then sporting with delight. The croaking of these animals is similar to that of the proper frogs, but stronger, though not quite so sharp. It is most frequently heard in wet weather ; but on a beautiful summer evening the traveller is sometimes surprised by a vast group of these hoarse musicians, assembled on the tops of the highest trees. They feed on the insect tribes. Late in the season they retire to the water, where they pass the winter in a kind of lethargy, and remain there till the spawning season has elapsed. Some Indian species deposit their eggs on the under side of leaves hanging over water ; and General Hardwicke has observed them place their ova on a leaf which stood over a pail of water, so that the young dropt into the fluid beneath. There is not a single species of the tree-frog in the British isles ; they occur, however, frequently in the more favoured climes of Europe,
and Superabound in warmer regions. The number of ascertained species is not inferior to that of the frogs proper. They are among the most interesting of the race, and many of them are very beautiful.
H. Arborea,
Cuv. ;
Λ.
Arborca,
Lin.
Common tree-frog.
In beauty of colouring, as well as in elegance of form, and general agility of movement, the tree-frog exceeds every other European species. It is found in France, Germany, and Italy; but more towards the south than north. It avoids dry situations and mountainous forests, and delights in humid woods, in hedges bordering on marshes, an⅛ in parks and gardens ornamented with water. Its principal sojourn during the summer months is the upper parts of trees, searching for insects, which it catches with extreme alacrity, stealing softly upon them, as a cat towards a mouse, and seizing them with a sudden spring of frequently more than a yard in height. It often suspends itself by its feet, or by a single foot, or even by its abdomen and drawn-up toes from a twig, or the under portion of a leaf, thus continuing beneath the shade. It is among the smallest of European frogs. Its colour is green above, more or less bright ; its belly whitish, and covered with numerous small tubercles; a dark violet-coloured streak runs along the flanks ; and the limbs are reddish. The body is smooth above, and rather short and plump ; tlle hind legs are very long and slender. The fore feet have four toes, the hind five, and all of them terminate in dilated flattish tips. The surface of the abdomen is very remarkable, being so granular, adhesive, and elastic, that it enables the animal to adhere almost to anything, even, it is said, to polished glass, at whatever inclination, or in whatever position it is placed. The spawn is deposited towards the end of April, and the perfect animal appears in August, when it ascends the neighbouring trees, and assorts with its parents. Being very noisy on the approach of rain, this species is considered as an excellent barometer ; and in the German
Ephemerides
there is an account of one which was kept in a state of domestication for seven years, and gave the greatest satisfaction from being peculiarly weather-wise.
The
Zebra hyla, H. cαlarnitα,
Gray,
Calamita maxima,
Schn., appears to be one of the largest of these slender-bodied frι ogs, a specimen described by Seba having attained the length of five inches. It is a native of Carolina and Virginia. It is of a rufous-brown colour, striped with chestnut bands ; all its feet are w, ebbed, and the toes orbicular. The
Merian hyla, H. Meriana,
Gray,
Rana Meriana,
Shaw, first depicted and described by Maria Merian, in her
Surinam,
merits a distinct notice. It is about three times the size of the common hyla ; and on each side of the neck has a remarkable protuberance, resembling an obtusely conical inflated pouch ; its hind feet are distinctly webbed. It is of a brownish-green colour above, and is variegated with patches of yellow. It is found sometimes on trees, and sometimes in water. Mad. Me-rian states that they have external ears, and that the balls on their toes facilitate their progress over the soft marshes which they frequent. The
H. tibiatrix,
Laurenti, is an American species, and is said by Seba to croak in a melodious manner during very hot weather after the setting of the sun, while in the cold and rainy season it is silent, concealing itself at the bottom of the waters.
H. lateralis,
Catesby, has been observed in Carolina, and also, it is said, in Surinam. It is usually found attached underneath the leaves of trees, concealing itself, and lying secure from birds and serpents, its most dangerous foes. They are sometimes found in vast heaps, the bushes and woods being completely covered with them ; and their croaking may be heard at the distance of whole leagues. They make prodigious leaps, and hence in the United States are called the crickets of the savannahs, their cry
also resembling the noise made by that insect.
H. Iinc-toria,
Cuv.
R. Iinctoria,
Lin. or
Dying Hyla,
has a singular property assigned it, apparently on good authority. It is said that by its means the American Indians partially change the plumage of their parrots from green to red. With this object in view, they pluck out the green feathers when the bird is young, and rub the wounded skin with the blood of the hyla, after which the feathers spring up of a fine red or yellow colour. It inhabits Surinam and Guiana, frequenting the woods nearly the whole year, concealing itself in clefts of trees, and under the bark in cold nights, and resorting to water only for the purpose of reproduction. Cuvier has enumerated, as among the largest and most beautiful, the
H. bicοlor
of Daudin and Spix ; it is of a celestial blue colour above, and of a rosy tint below. He has catalogued several additional species; and Mr Gray’s list is very extensive, including some species from New Holland.
Genus Bufo. The generic characters of this group, which includes the toads, are, a body thick, short, clumsy, and generally covered with warts and pimples, with a glandular pad behind the ears, from all of which distils a milky fetid humour ; there are usually no teeth ; the hind feet are frequently short, and hence the species rather crawl than leap ; and they are generally found at a considerable distance from water. By Linnæus they were incorporated in the same genus with the frogs, and so close is their resemblance, that that arrangement is still sometimes followed. Toads have in all times and places been regarded as disgusting animals, and sometimes even as objects of horror. They are usually believed to be venomous, and are consequently subjected to proscription and extermination. It will be found, however, on examination, as has been observed by a noted naturalist, that these animals are comparatively harmless, that the study of their organization involves much interest, and that their history presents a crowd of facts equally curious and important. A slight sketch of the structure and habits of these despised animals having already appeared in our general remarks on the order, we shall here allude only to a few distinguishing traits.
The European toads are stated to have only eight vertebræ, and some as few as seven. Though generally described as wanting teeth, yet some species have them on the gums, large and curved. The tongue is not forked, as in most of the frogs ; nor do they possess the gular pouches, which give to the frogs their peculiarly resounding voices. The glandular cushion-like body behind the ears, sometimes stated as the most distinct mark of the genus, is considered by Schneider as nothing· else than the parotid gland, well known in man as the seat of that disease called the mumps,— with what degree of accuracy we are not prepared to say. The toads, in general, are heavy sluggish animals in comparison with frogs, and sometimes even crawl with difficulty.
The cuticular excretion usually regarded as so offensive is possessed by frogs as well as toads ; but is much more abundant in the latter. It is alleged that the toad can at will increase the secretion of this viscous humour, and cause it to distil like dew from all its pores. The most important use, as previously suggested, is probably connected with respiration ; the one usually assigned is, that it defends the animal from the heat of the sun and the dryness of the air. This abundant perspiration must, of course, maintain the species at a low temperature ; and Adanson states the fact to be so well known, that the negroes in traversing the burning sands of Senegal are in the habit of applying a live creature of this kind to the forehead for the purpose of cooling it. These reptiles have the power of emitting another secretion, which is regarded as a weapon of defence and offence. It is discharged from the lower gut, is shot forth in a small stream, and often occasions apprehensions from its supposed venomous nature. When toads are surprised and alarmed, instead of seeking safety in flight, tney make a dead halt, swell out their body, making it hard and elastic, and distil this humour from its surface in augmented quantities. They also make efforts to bite, without, however, inflicting any injury. The direct application of the fluids proceeding from the common toad to the human skin is innocuous, and the idea that it confers a poisonous quality upon vegetables, fruits, and mushrooms, is entirely groundless.
The process of spawning in the toad is carried on much in the same way as in the frog. In the latter the ova appear imbedded in a glary continuous mass, which has been compared to a cord or chaplet : in the toad two of these cords appear together, the united length of which would extend to about twenty feet. Ten or twelve days after deposition, the eggs acquire double their volume ; the tadpoles issue forth about the twentieth day, and acquire their gills two or three days after.
Though the taste is not likely to become prevalent, there is no doubt that toads have been made familiar pets. Mr Pennant gives a curious account of one having lived in a kind of domestic state for the space of more than forty years, and of having been, in a great degree, reclaimed from its natural shyness and desire of concealment. On the approach of its master, and on the lighting of the candles at night, it left its retreat, and came to demand its regular evening meal. It grew to a very large size, and attracted many curious visitors. It was often brought to table, and fed upon various insects, which it seized with avidity, without being embarrassed by the presence of company. Its favourite retreat was beneath the steps of the house-door ; and it had all the appearance of surviving many additional years, when it was attacked and destroyed by a raven.
But the most curious trait in the history of the toad, is its alleged power of being encased and buried for a long period of time without food or respiration, and of reviving again when reintroduced to light and air. Not that the toad is singular among the Batrachia for this faculty, for its congeners are likewise celcbrated on account of it. Nor would it appear to be confined to this order, for similar stories are told of serpents, and even of fish, insects, &c. The attention of the French academy was directed to this subject about the year 1771, from its having been stated, that upon pulling down a wall of a mansion belonging to the Duke of Orleans, and which was forty years old, a toad which proved to be alive, was found in it, its hind feet being actually entrapt and imbedded in the mortar. Stimulated by the interest which this story excited, M. Herri-saut, in presence of the academy, enclosed three toads in as many boxes, surrounding them with a thick coating of plaster, and deposited them in an apartment of the academy. Here they were left untouched for eighteen months, when, on being examined, two of them were found alive, and the third dead. The former were re-enclosed, and on a second examination some months after, were found dead. The animals were completely impacted and imbedded, without leaving any space for surrounding air. Notwithstanding the apparently conclusive nature of these experiments, the possibility of such long endurance was still denied by many,— the more so, as the fact was as inexplicable as extraordinary. Dr Edwards, however, performed somewhat similar experiments in Paris in the year 1817, by shutting up toads effectively in plaster, when he found that they lived for a long period ; and additional light was thrown upon the subject by that observer discovering, that when tlle plaster was made impervious to air, as by sinking the whole mass in watcr, the toads speedily perished. From this it follows, that owing to the porosity of the plaster, a portion of air still penetrates to the imprisoned toad, sufficient to maintain its vital functions in that low state in which we often see these reptiles during hybernation, or when completely frozen. The importance, under these circumstances, of tlle cuticular re-
Spiration already mentioned, is obvious. Analogous phenomena are observable in other classes of the animal kingdom. Thus, the reviving powers of the
Rotifer redivivus,
though so astonishing, are now undisputed ; and no one doubts Franklin’s anecdote of the apparently dead flies, which he took from a fresh-drawn bottle of Madeira, and revived in the sun. Many drowned insects, to all appearance dead, are made to renew their vital powers when sprinkled over with dry warm sand, or pounded plaster ; and it appears that in like manner, a certain feeble life, capable under altered circumstances of quick and strong increase, lingers long in many reptiles.
The great majority of the instances of imprisoned toads and frogs is said to have occurred in growing trees, hard wood, coal, and in sandstones and other rocks not of a very dense or impenetrable consistence. The fact has been long and frequently alleged, and the difficulty of accounting for it forms the chief ground of the prevailing scepticism. The wonder produced is forcibly though quaintly expressed in a Latin inscription written in letters of gold, framed with a coat of arms, and hung over a mantle-piece of sandstone, formerly in Chillingham Castle. In this sandstone there was a deep excavation, believed for ages to have been the living tomb of one of these creatures. We give a translation of a part of this document.
Hither, Stagyrite!
If you would sec a phenomenon more wonderful than Euripus, Come hither ;
Let seas ebb and flow as they may, and let him be a lunatic Who despoils the moon of her honours.
Behold here a novelty, such as neither Africa presents to thee, Nor the Nile with her fabulous sands;
A fire and pure flame Existing, though shut out from vital air.
From the dark recesses of the cut rock which you see,
Tbe hands of the obstetrical stone-cutter gave light To a living toad ! !
In illustration of this alleged phenomenon, we shall adduce but a single recent instance out of many. On the 25th of July 1832, four men made affidavit, “ that they were astonished, on splitting a large block of millstone grit on Stain-more, more than a ton weight, by a living yellow frog springing out of a cavity in the centre of the said solid rock, where
it had been as closely imbedded as a watch in its outer case,
without any communication with the surface nearer than eight inches. This frog was conveyed to Brough, Westmoreland, and given to Mr Rumney, surgeon, in whose possession it now (Jan. 21, 1833) continues in a healthy living state.”
Wr e have already mentioned, that however disgusting may be their qualities in the apprehension of many, toads are eaten greedily by savage tribes, and not seldom, though unwittingly, by the more fastidious inhabitants of the gay and splendid capitals of Europe. We now proceed to allude more particularly to a few of the species.
The
common toad (B. vulgaris,—Rana Info,
Linn.) is of a russet or brownish-gray colour, sometimes olive, and even blackish. It is covered with numerous round tubercles on the back, and with smaller ones beneath. The hind feet are semi-palmated. It is found throughout Europe (most abundantly in its western parts), and is common in this country. It usually sojourns in obscure and sheltered places, and passes the winter in holes which it finds or makes for itself. It spawns in water in March and April ; the ova are very small and numerous, suspended in two cords of transparent jelly. The tadpole is blackish, and remarkably small when it loses its tail and acquires its feet. The branchial aperture is on the left side. This toad is long lived, fifteen years being assigned as not unfrequent. Its cry has a distant resem
blance to the barking of a dog, and during summer it croaks feebly.
Many toads possess a strong disgusting smell. Of this kind are the
rush toad (Rana bufo calamita,
Gmel.), of which the colour and size much resemble those of the common toad, the cushions behind its ears being somewhat less. Its hind feet are not at all webbed, and it has a pouch or sac under its throat. Its pace differs from that of most of tlle toad tribe, as it runs nearly after the manner of a mouse, with the body and limbs somewhat raised. It is chiefly a nocturnal animal. The ova are contained in two cords ; and the evolution of the ova is so speedy, that the tadpoles liberate themselves in the space of five or six days. During spring it frequents places overgrown with reeds, and croaks loudly. When handled or irritated it pours forth its cutaneous exudation, and squirts its other fluid to a distance of three or four feet, and thus diffuses an intolerable odour, resembling the smoke of gunpowder, but stronger, and so permanent, that if it fall upon furniture it cannot be got rid of for months. Analogous to, if not identical with the preceding, is
B. calamita
of Laurenti, the
natterjack
of British Erpetologists,—
mcphetic toad
of Dr Shaw. In general appearance it resembles our common toad, but the eyes are more projecting, with the eyelids greatly elevated above the crown, and there is a line of bright yellow along the middle of the back. This reptile was first remarked as British by the late Sir Joseph Banks, in Lincolnshire, and has since been met with on many heaths near London, as well as in Cambridgeshire and Norfolk. Except during the spawning season, it appears to affect dry and sandy districts. It is of much more active habits than the common toad, its pace “ being a kind of shuffling run.”@@1 It never leaps. The
brown toad, Β. fuscus,
Laurenti, is also distinguished by an offensive discharge ; but in addition to the gunpowder-smoke smell, and overpowering it, there is an extremely strong odour of garlick or onions, which produces the same effects upon the eyes as do these vegetables. The whole of the skin of this animal is nearly smooth, and the hind limbs are long and deeply webbed. It leaps well, and prefers the neighbourhood of water. Its ova are deposited in a single cord, which, however, is thicker than the double one of the common toad. The tadpole of this species arrives at a great size before it attains its complete form, so that, according to Roi⅛el, it is considered by the country people as a kind of fish, and is eaten accordingly. The
variable
or
green toad, B. variabilis,
Cuv.,
Rana variabilis,
Gmel. and Pallas,
B. viridis
of Schneider and Shaw, is a third species, likewise characterized by a most disagreeable smell, resembling that of the rank and deadly nightshade, but more powerful, and soon contaminating any close apartment. This kind is a native of Germany, the south of France, and other parts of Europe. It derives its specific name from the tints of its colour undergoing striking changes as it sleeps or wakes, or is exposed to sun or shade. It is called the green toad from its spots being of that colour. Pallas’s account of it is as follows : The general colour is pale or whitish, becoming in hot sunshine entirely gray ; when asleep the spots only appear gray, and when torpid the general hue is flesh-coloured.
The
obstetric toad, B. obstetricus
of Laurenti, is a small grayish reptile which inhabits France, and affords an example of a very curious instinct. The process of spawning is not conducted by this species in the water, but on land, and there the male assists the female to get rid of her eggs, which amount to about sixty. These he attaches in small bundles to his thighs by means of an adhesive fluid, and for weeks carries them about with great care. When the young are ready to escape, he seeks some stagnant wa
1
@@@ Jeny∏9, 8
British Vertebrate Animals,
30'J.
ter, and there deposits them in safety, the tadpole soon issuing forth, and swimming immediately. The
prickly toad, B. spinosus
of Daudin, which derives its name from strong projections on its tubercles, seems also to possess a singular peculiarity. It is never met with on the surface of the soil, and is only procured by means of the plough. The country people are persuaded it never leaves its retreat voluntarily ; and Daudin suspects that it deposits its ova in the earth, in humid places, near the subterranean sources of water.
Most of the toads of tropical climates are remarkable for their great size. Of this we give an instance in the
marine toad, Rnna marina,
Gmel., a native of South America, the length of whose body extends to nearly a foot. It is also remarkable for its
post-aural
projections, which are an inch long, and oval shaped. The feet are not webbed ; the toes are terminated with round knobs, and furnished with short claws resembling the human nails in miniature. There are many other recorded species of toads proper, on which, however, we cannot dwell ; and we now proceed to several genera which have recently been separated from the group.
Genus Bombinator. This genus differs from the other toads only in having the tympanum, or sort covering of the ear, hid under the skin. Rhinella of Fitzinger (Oxyr-hyncus of Spix) is distinguished by a prolonged muzzle. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 4.) M. Gay has lately informed us
(Ann. des Sc. Nat., Avril
1836, p. 224), that in Chili there is a genus allied to Rhinella, consisting of several agreeably coloured species, which are always viviparous. In the same locality he made a similar remark regarding several species of snakes. To these two genera succeed the Otilopha of Cuvier, which has also an acute snout, and on each side of the head a projecting crest extending to the gland called parotid. In the genus Breviceps of Merrem (part of Fitzingeris genus Engystoma), neither the tympanum nor parotids are apparent ; the body is oval, the head and mouth are remarkably small, and the feet scarcely at all webbed. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 5.) We shall here introduce a very few species belonging to these genera.
To the genus Bombinator belongs
B. bοmbiηus (Rαnα bοmbina,
Gmel.), which is the smallest and most aquatic of the European toads. It is gray or brown above, blackish blue with orange spots beneath. The hind feet are completely webbed, and nearly as long as those of frogs, so that it leaps nearly as well as they do. It affects morasses. Of the genus Rhinella, Spix has depicted and described five species, most of which, according to Cuvier, it is difficult to distinguish from the proper toads. The
mitred toad
OfEnglish writers, the
margaritifera
of Gmelin, is usually adduced as a type of the genus Otilopha. It is a native of Brazil, and about the size of the common toad ; it is rufous brown above and whitish beneath, beset with numerous small tubercles of a bluish or pearly cast, whence tbe French name
crapaud perlé ;
but its principal characteristic is the Subtriangular form of its head, the sides of which, beyond each eye, project into an angular protuberance. From the nose likewise an elevated white line runs along each side of the head, over the shoulder, to the sides ; the fore feet are unwebbed, the hind are partly so. Genuine specimens of the genus Breviceps present animals not a little singular in their forms. Such are the
short-headed
and the
indistinct toad
of British authors, the
Rana breνiccps
and
R. systorna 
of Schneider. They are oval-shaped like eggs, with scarcely any projecting head ; and one of them has actually been called the
headless toad. (Rana acephalα,
Schn.). The
shortheaded toad
is a very small animal, about half the size of the common toad ; the head is completely blended and incorporated with the thorax, and the surface is rather wrinkled than tuberculous. It is a native of Africa.
Λ.
systo-ma
comes from the East Indies, and has a thick rounded body, with a head so lost in the general outline that the mouth is scarcely apparent ; the legs, too, are peculiarly short, and appear almost as if imbedded in the wrinkled skin of the sides.
We now advance to tile genus Pipa, which is universally distinguished from the toads. Its generic characters are the following : The body is flattened horizontally ; the head is broad and triangular ; the tongue is so adherent that it appears to be wanting (it is often said to be so) ; the tympanum is hid beneath the skin ; the small eyes are placed toward the margin of the lower jaw ; the extremities of all the fingers are divided into four small points ; and finally, the male has an enormously sized larynx, like a triangular osseous box, which encloses two moveable ossiculi which occasionally close the branchiæ. Of this genus, that well-known and most singular animal commonly called the Surinam toad
(Pipa Swrinamcnsis,
Laurenti,—
Ranapipa 
of Linnæus), may be taken as a type. It seems to have been introduced to the notice of naturalists at the close of the seventeenth century, and was first described by the celebrated Ruysch. It is one of the most uncouth and hideous of nature’s creatures, and is especially signalizcd for some of the most extraordinary phenomena regarding the growth of its young which are to be found throughout the range of the animal kingdom. The size of the Surinam toad considerably exceeds that of our common species. The mouth is very wide ; the hands are tetradactylous ; the fingers long and slender, and each divided at the tip into four distinct processes, all of which, when narrowly inspected with a glass, are found to be again subdivided in nearly a similar manner. The web of the hind feet reaches to the tips of the toes. The male is rather larger than the female, sometimes attaining the length of seven inches. The back is studded with granules, which are somewhat more numerous and larger on the female ; the skin round the neck, in both sexes, forms a kind of loose wrinkled collar. The general colour of both is a dark blackish brown. This reptile has been long celebrated for the manner in which its young are perpetuated ; and on this account it has become the object of much attention. It was for a time supposed that the ova issued from the deeper seated parts of the back, and were then enclosed in small cells on its surface till they were regularly hatched. Later observations in correcting this mistake have demonstrated a not less peculiar history. The precise truth was first made known by Dr Fermin, who had an opportunity, during his residence at Surinam, to investigate the creature’s structure in a more satisfactory manner than had previously been practicable. His account is, that the female Pipa spawns at the brink of some stagnant water, and that the male immediately collects and amasses the heap of ova, and after impregnation deposits them with great care on the back of the female, where they are received into cellules which at this period are open for their reception, but speedily close upon them. They are there retained to the time of their second birth, which happens in somewhat less than three months. During this period the cells gradually enlarge, till the young emerge from the back of the parent in a completely formed state. During the time of their concealment, however, they undergo the usual change which is effected upon tlleir congeners, being first hatched from the ova in the form of a tadpole ; and then, after gradually acquiring their perfect shape, losing their tail, and so forth, they are extruded from the cellules. This strange process has since been examined and verified by Camper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, and other naturalists, and is now established as a phenomenon equally true as extraordinary. Fermin found the brood he observed amount to seventy-five, and the period of their extrusion as young Pipas occupied five days. When they had made their escape, the female, having rubbed the epidermis from her back on some hard substance, returned to land. This
species lives in the fresh waters of South America, and sometimes in obscure houses in Cayenne and Surinam, where it is called
tedo
and
cumeu.
According to Seba and Madame Merian, the negroes of the colonies use its flesh as food.
Spix has figured another species,
P. curururu,
nearly resembling the above, which affects the bottoms of lakes in Brazil. That author assures us that the female does not receive and hatch its young in the alveola on her back. Another kind is preserved in the Paris museum,—a true Pipa, according to Cuvier, from the Rio Negro. It is quite smooth, and has a narrower head than the common species. The baron names it
Pipa lœvis.
FAMILY SALAMANDRIDÆ. NEWTS OR SALAMANDERS.
We have now reached a group of which the name has been celebrated from remote antiquity, and the history encompassed by fables in every age. “It was on the fortunate soil of ancient Greece, in the bosom of a wise and warlike nation, where imagination, favoured by a happy clime, exaggerated even the wonders of creative power, that the reputation of the salamander originated.”@@1 It was among that fanciful people that an obscure and changeful reptile was as it were consecrated to posterity by a fantastic but immortal name.
But the times of superstitious fiction regarding the once famous salamander are now for ever passed and gone, and it is only to be regretted that they have not carried along with them the ignorant prejudice which still remains respecting a few harmless reptiles. “ The daughter of fire,” with her “ frame of icy crystal,” is now nearly forgotten ; and for unchanging love and unflinching courage, other and more fitting emblems have been long invented. The ancient story of the salamander enduring fire and extinguishing flame is now recognised only as an idle tale ; and scarcely less so its faculty of poisoning vegetables, and its other pernicious powers. These gross errors being swept away, more room is left to investigate whatever is instructive in the history of those once widely abused, but really interesting creatures.
As tlle salamanders resemble in many respects the foregoing genera of the order, many of the details which have previously been stated equally apply to them. This remark relates also to the extraordinary metamorphoses they undergo, but with some striking variations. We here find examples of a species of reproduction not uncommon among fish, and met with, as already mentioned, among certain lizards. We allude to that mode of birth known under the name of
ovo-viviparous.
The mode we have been hitherto contemplating resembles that of birds in being strictly
oviparous.
The ova or eggs are extruded from the parent, and under the influence of heat the young are in due time hatched. In the salamanders, however, another stage intervenes. When the ova have arrived at the state in which, in the other Batrachia, they are wont to be expelled, in these they are retained for some time after their development has begun. The eggs are, in fact, never laid, but are hatched in the interior of the parents ; so that they bring forth living offspring, although originally contained in eggs. These eggs, by a natural process, are deposited in certain bags, which are called
oviducts.
In the salamander there are five of these, each of which contains six, or eight, or more young, and there they are nourished by a peculiar fluid, and do not issue forth till they have undergone their metamorphoses, that is, have acquired their feet and other organs. They are deposited in or near marshes.
In our general remarks on the Batrachia, we traced, in a few words, the changes which take place in the respiratory system of this group. VVe saw that being first exercised in water, it was for a time precisely analogous to that of fishes ; and that terminating on land, it perfectly corresponded with that of land animals. In tlle salamanders there is this peculiarity,—that while one section of them ere long become terrestrial in their structure and habits, another division continues aquatic for life. But so far as respiration is concerned, the same complete metamorphosis takes place in these latter as in the former ; their gills vanish, regular lungs are completed, and yet the aquatic salamander, water-newt, or triton as it is sometimes called, continues a constant inhabitant of the water. The species are in fact habitual inmates of that element, and yet inhale the vital breath of heaven ; and in this respect completely correspond to the cetaceous or whale tribes, with whose peculiarities, on a scale so greatly more gigantic, naturalists have been long acquainted. Like them they must regularly come to the surface, inflate their lungs, descend to their weedy homes, and after a time return again for air,—repeating this process as often as their exigencies may require. Peculiar characters distinguish the circulating system of the Cete, as compared with that of other Mammalia ; and we have little doubt that parallel features occur among the tritons, although we are not awr are that this point has been as yet investigated.
When speaking of toads, we took occasion to make a few remarks on the cuticular secretion, for which they, in common with other Batrachia, are remarkable. The salamanders have on this account been still more celebrated ; and there seems no reason to doubt that the fable of their withstanding the effects of fire has originated from this peculiarity. The humour is in them found to possess more concentric virtue, having withal a more offensive odour, and a more acrid taste. Count Lacépède says, that if a drop of it come in contact with the tongue, it produces the sensation of burning ; so that it really proves a defence against many animals which would otherwise devour them. It is more especially when they are irritated and alarmed, and particularly if exposed to fire, that they distil the secretion in quantities, and envelope themselves in a damp covering, which, for a brief period, might possibly prevent their being consumed. Hence, then, may have originated the ancient opinion that these animals could live not only on land and in water, but also in fire ; and from the slender germ of that same peculiarity has no doubt Spreadthe monstrous statement of Pliny, that these creatures infested the herbage of a country to such a vast extent as even to cause the extinction of entire nations !
Another remarkable peculiarity of the salamanders, more especially of the aquatic kind, which has been successfully elucidated by Spallanzani, is common to them, and in some measure to the tadpole state of the other Batrachia. We allude to that surprising power whereby, when repeatedly deprived of even an important portion of their body, that portion is as frequently renewed. This property is not unknown among some of the lower orders of creation, but in none is it more striking than in these reptiles. Thus, in the triton, the whole limb may be removed, and by and by we find it completely restored, and furnished with perfect bones, muscles, nerves, &c. In other instances an eye has been extracted, and speedily a new and perfect one is found to have supplied its place. These renewals are more complete than such as take place among the true lizards, formerly alluded to.
The salamander group are distinguished by the following peculiarities. They have an elongated body, four feet, and
1
@@@ Griffith’s
Animat Jlingdom1
ix.
4C4.
■ a lengthened tail, which gives them a general resemblance to the lizards. Their head is flat, and the ear entirely hid in the flesh, without any apparent tympanum, there being only a small cartilage over the external aperture. Botll jaws are furnished with numerous small teeth, and two similar rows occur upon the palate. The tongue resembles that of frogs, but there is no third eyelid. They have a skeleton with fourteen dorsal vertebræ, and remarkably small rudiments of ribs, but without any osseous sternum ; the pelvis is simply suspended from the spine by ligaments. They have four fingers and five toes. As we have already stated, they respire like the preceding genera. The arms of the tadpole are developed before the legs, contrary to what happens in the animals already reviewed.
Salamanders are divided into the terrestrial and aquatic.
We commence with the former.
Genus Salamandra, Laur.
Terrestrial salamanders.
(See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 6.) In their perfect state these reptiles have a round tail ; they remain in water only during their tadpole state (which is brief), or while in the act of reproduction. Their ova are enclosed in oviducts.
These salamanders, though not unfrequent in Europe, and in warmer regions, seem never to have been observed in Britain. They take up their abode in damp ground, and amidst brushwood, in ditches and shady places, in subterranean caverns and among old ruins. They are feeble, timid, stupid creatures, which live on worms, snails, flies, and other insects, and apparently on rich mould. They appear almost entirely deaf and dumb, and show no dread either of man, or of other animals stronger than themselves. If thrown into water, they immediately attempt to escape from it. They are capable of enduring most serious mutilation without apparently suffering from it ; if, however, they are plunged into vinegar or alcohol, or are sprinkled with salt or tobacco, they are killed in a moment. We may now enumerate a few of the species. The
spotted salamander, S. maculosa, 
Laur., of the usual length of six or eight inches, sometimes more, is one of the largest, and most widely spread through Europe. It is of a shining black colour, with two bright yellow stripes on its flanks, and of a livid blue colour beneath. It has conspicuous glands (parotids) behind its occiput, and along its sides are rows of tubercles, from whence, when alarmed, a milky humour flows, bitter to the taste, of a strong smell, and injurious to the life of very small animals. Its tail is of a roundish or cylindrical form, tapering to the extremity. It affects humid places, and retires into subterranean holes, under large stones and roots of trees. The brain of this reptile is said to be so small as not to equal the diameter of the spinal marrow, and its perceptive powers are proportionally dull. The
black salamander, S. atra,
Laur., is not above half the size of the foregoing ; it is black, and devoid of spots above, and of a yellowish hue beneath. It is rare in France, but is found in the Alps, and is abundant in the mountainous regions of Southern Germany. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 6.) The
funereal salamander, S. funebris,
is six or eight inches long, of a deep-brown colour. It was observed by Bory St Vincent in the hottest and dampest parts of Andalusia. This species issued in dozens from their retreats at night, and Speedilyadvanced towards destruction near the bivouac fires, by which they were attracted. Into these they would apparently have themselves advanced, had not the soldiers cast them amid the flames, where they remained for a few moments as if unhurt, thus far supporting their incombustible reputation. We need scarcely add, however, that they very speedily died
roosted,
as any other small animal would have done under a similar predicament.
Among the foreign salamanders a great number mhabit North America ; and these are said to be destitute of the occipital glands. Palisot and Bosc have each described a new species. Thunberg has also discovered one in Japan, to which the natives ascribe medicinal virtues of the most valuable kind. The
spectacled salamander, S. peτspieil-lata
of Savi, has only four toes on the hind feet. It is black above, and yellow spotted with black beneath, with a yellow line between the eyes. It is found in the Apennines.
GENusTRiTONj Laur.
Aquatic salamanders.
Wenow turn to the aquatic group, commonly called newts, which have a tail always compressed vertically, and pass a great portion of their lives in water. (See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 7.) These are the animals experimented on by Spallanzani, and so celebrated for their reproductive powers. Another faculty scarcely less singular, is that which M. Dufay has recognised them as possessing,—we mean their power of remaining frozen for a length of time in ice without mortal injury. Their ova are fecundated by the milt being mixed with the ambient water, and penetrating with it into the oviducts. After a certain sojourn there, the young issue in long gelatinous cords, from which they do not effect their escape till several days after their extrusion. The branchiæ continue for a longer or shorter period in different species. Few have been accurately observed in Europe, and doubts remain about their specific determination, because they change their colours with their age, and differ according both to sex and season. The crests and other ornaments of the males, also, are only fully developed during spring. If winter surprises them still wearing gills, these parts are then maintained throughout the colder season, and even continue to increase.
The following are species which have been accurately characterized. The
marbled salamander, S. marmorata, 
Lat.
(Triton Gesnerii
of Laurenti), has the skin chagrined, pale green above, spotted with large irregular brown blotches, and brown spotted with white beneath. A red line runs . along the back, which in the male forms a kind of crest, marked with black spots. The
crested triton, S. eristatα, 
Lat., has the skin chagrined, brown above spotted with black, and orange beneath similarly spotted ; the flanks are spotted with white. The crest of the male is high, acutely serrated, and embroidered with violet during the love season. This is our great water-newt (
T. palustris,
Flem. and Jen.), by no means uncommon in Britain during summer in ponds and ditches, and sometimes found in autumn out of water, in damp and shady situations. M. Bibron, who lately read a paper on these tritons to the London Zoological Society, stated that he had found this and the preceding species indigenous to Britain ; and that the distinguishing characteristic consists in this, that in the crested species the upper lip is so largely developed that it overlaps the under one posteriorly when the jaws are closed, a condition never present in the
marmorata.
The
spotted triton, S. αl-pestris,
Bechst., has a chagrined skin, and is slaty and brown coloured above, and orange or red beneath ; whilst
S. punctata,
Lat. (
T. punctatus,
Bonap.), has a smooth skin, light brown above, pale reddish beneath, and spotted everywhere with black. The crest is festooned, and its toes somewhat enlarged, but not webbed. This is the common (or smaller) water-newt of Britain. It is subject to considerable variation, and is often found on land. A third British species is the striped eft,
T. vittatus
of Gray. Finally,
T. palmata, 
Lat., is brown on the back, black and brown on the head, lighter on the flanks, and spotted with black. The male has three small crests on its back; the toes are dilated and webbed, and the tail terminates in a slender membranaceous fin. North America is rich in aquatic salamanders; but our knowledge of these, as of many European species, is too obscure to admit of their precise classification. Baron Cuvier has well remarked, that a good monograph of this interesting group, with accurate plates, is a great desideratum.
We have now to conclude the present article with a few brief notices of certain very remarkable genera, some ot
which differ considerably from all the members of the two preceding families, while others are bv no means remotely allied to the salamanders. They are all aquatic ; and while some lose their gills at so early a period as to have misled observers into the belief that they never at any time possessed these organs, others retain them throughout their lives, even after the development of internal hmgs,—thus exhibiting, as we observed at the commencement of our treatise, the only truly amphibious animals of the vertebrated kingdom.
a. No apparent branchiœ.
Genus Menopoma, Harlan ;
Alrranchns,
ejusd. We have here a form resembling that of the salamanders. The eyes are obvious, the feet well developed, and there is an orifice on each side of the neck. Besides the range of delicate teeth around the jaws, there is a parallel range upon the anterior portion of the palate. The only species known is the great salamander of North America (N.
giganlea,
Barton), called Hellbender in the United States. It measures from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, the colour of a blackish blue, and dwells in the rivers of the interior, and the great lakes.@@1 See Plate CCCCXXXIII. fig. 8.
Genus Amphiuma, Garden. The species of this genus have also an orifice on each side of the neck ; but the body is much lengthened, and the legs and feet but slightly developed. Their palatine teeth form two longitudinal rows.
Amph. tridactylum,
Cuv. is distinguished by three toes to all the feet.@@1 Another species,
Arnph. didαctylum, ( Arnph. means,
Garden and Harlan), has only two toes. The body is long and cylindrical, the head depressed and obtuse ; the tail compressed, with a sharpened ridge above, but blunt below. The fore fect are formed like tentacu-la. The colour is blackish gray above, and pale beneath, without spot or stripe. The observed size varies from six inches to two feet. This species inhabits ponds in the vicinity of New Orleans, and is met with in other parts of the southern states. It is sometimes found deeply sunk in mud, lying concealed like an earthworm, even at the depth of several feet. It is greatly dreaded, though without any reason, by the negroes, who name it the serpent of Congo.
b. Branchiœ apparent and persistant.
Genus Axolotus. The only known species of this genus, which we may name
Ax. pisciformis
(the specific title bestowed by Shaw), so entirely resembles the larva state of an aquatic salamander, that it is even yet regarded by some as an incompleted reptile. It was so regarded by Baron Cuvier in his contribution to Humboldt’s
Voyage ;
@@2 and even in his latest work he yielded rather to the opinion of others than his own conviction. “ Ce n’est encore qu’avec doute que je place l’axolote parmi les genres à branchies permanentes, mais tant des témoins assurent qu’il ne les perd pas, qui je m’y vois obligé.”@@4 The species in question measures from eight to ten inches in length, and is of a gray colour, spotted with black. It has four toes to the anterior feet, and five to the hinder, and there are three long tufted branchiæ on each side. (See Plate CCCCXXXIV. fig. 1.) It inhabits the lake on which the town of Mexico stands, and is naturally subjected at times to a low temperature. The specimens brought home by Mr Bullock were from an elevation of 8000 feet. That collector informed us that at certain seasons they stock the markets, and are eaten in great quantities by the peasants. Sir Everard Home has published an account of their anatomical structure. He is decidedly of opinion that they are not larvæ, but completed reptiles.@@5
Genus Menobranchus, Harlan ;
Ntcturus,
Rafinesque. Here there are only four toes to each foot. (See Plate CCCCXXXIV. fig. 2.) There is a single range of teeth on the Intermaxillaries, and another, parallel, but more extended, on the maxillaries. The best-known species is
M. lateralis ( Triton lateralis,
Say), a large reptile, which sometimes attains the length of two or three feet, and inhabits the great lakes of North America.@@6
Genus Proteus, Laurenti. Distinguished by having three toes to the anterior feet, and only two to the hinder. The Onlyknown species is P.
anguinus (Sircnanguina, 
Schneid.), an animal resembling an eel with legs, of a pale rose or flesh colour, and measuring from ten to twelve inches in length, with a diameter seldom exceeding half an inch. The muzzle is depressed and elongated ; both jaws are furnished with teeth, and the tongue is free in front, but not very moveable. The eye is excessively small, and covered over by a kind of tegument. The ears are also covered over more substantially, as among the salamanders. Besides the internal lungs, there are three feathered gills or branchiæ on each side of the posterior portion of the head. The skeleton resembles that of the salamanders, except that there are many more vertebræ, and fewer rudiments of ribs. The osteology of the head, however, is entirely different, and approximates that of the siren. The heart, composed of a single ventricle and auricle, is placed between the fore legs, and the lungs have the form of simple slender tubes, terminated by a vesicular dilatation. This truly remarkable reptile is found occasionally in a noted and romantic lake called Zirknitz (the Lugea Palus of the ancients), about six German miles from Labac, in the duchy of Carniola. From this lake, as extraordinary as its slimy inhabitant, the waters retire during the summer season by numerous subterranean outlets, leaving the ground fit for pasture and the cultivation of millet. In the month of October they return again with great force, springing out of the subterranean passages from a vast depth, till the lake is amply filled. It is situated in a hollow or valley, surrounded by rocky and wooded hills, in which are great caverns, and is supplied by rivulets running into it from the adjoining mountain regions. According to M. Schreibers, to whom we owe the first correct account of the proteus,@@7 its proper locality is Lake Sittich, one of several which communicate with that already named. Its more characteristic abode is probably among the subterranean canals which are known to connect together those peculiar lakes of Car-niola. All its characters, in fact, present the aspect of a subterranean animal. It has a pale, bleached, ghost-like aspect, and its small, opake, skin-covered eyes bear but small resemblance to the brilliant visual organs of other reptiles.
We come, finally, to the genus Siren, Linn., in which the posterior legs are entirely wanting, and the anterior pair furnished with four toes. We have it in our power to state several particulars in the history and structure of a species of this genus from personal observation,—a mode of acquiring knowledge which, however desirable, has by no means been granted us in regard to the majority of the groups discussed in this exposition of the reptile race. We never, like Colonel Bory St Vincent, tossed a salamander into the fire,—we never, like Mr Waterton, rode on the back of an alligator,—we never waded waist deep, with Mr Audubon, among hundreds of these huge reptiles,—we never sailed, like Wordsworth’s Highland boy, in a turtle’s
1
@@@
   Μim. du Mas.
xiv. pl. 1 ; and
Journal of the Academy of Sciences of Philadelphia,
vol. ill.
2
@@@3
Recherches sur tes Reptiles douteux,
p. 123.    @@@4
Rigne Animal,
ii. 119.
shell,—and our practical experience, even of green fat, is far from extensive ;—but we have watched a siren from the far west ; and as the history of the species in question cannot fail to throw light on the nature and attributes of others to which it is related, and as it is in itself a very extraordinary and interesting reptile, we shall make no apology for the length of the following observations.
The Gardenian siren
(Siren Iacertina,
Linn.), so named in remembrance of Dr Garden, by whom it seems to have been first observed, in its general form and aspect bears a great resemblance to an eel, but is at once to be distinguished from a fish by its anterior arms. The fine specimen long preserved alive by Dr Patrick Neill of Edinburgh was originally transmitted by Dr Farmer of Charlestown, South Carolina, to Dr Monro. It measured one foot five inches in length, and about four inches in circumference. (See Plate CCCCXXXIV. fig. 3.) Its colour was deep blackish brown, rather paler beneath, where it was partially tinged with a bluish hue, and marked all over with numerous small, irregular, pale, ashy-brown spots, not very perceptible except on a rather close inspection. The muzzle was blunt, depressed, sub-rounded or slightly square, and considerably narrower than the hinder portion of the head. The nostrils, which are inconspicuous, are placed near the anterior angle of the upper jaw. The head is broad and flat. The eyes are dim, of an obscure blue, and there is no very obvious distinction of colour between the iris and pupil, both appearing as if seen through a semi-transparent membrane. The gills consist of three fleshy peduncles, which increase in size from the first to the last. They are beautifully branched from beneath and along their lateral and terminal edges, and these little branches are divided and subdivided into still more minute ramifications. This elegant fringe-work forms the true gills, the central and fleshy stalks serving merely as their support. Beneath, and rather in advance of these bodies, are three vertical clefts, through which the water is ejected backwards from the interior of the mouth upon the gills, though with a much more languid and less perceptible action than in fishes. These clefts or branchial perforations are sustained and kept in separation by four arches, which Garden, Ellis, and Camper appear to have mistaken for gills, although both Linnæus and John Hunter took a more accurate view’ of the matter.@@1
The general surface of this siren is very smooth and shining ; and if there are any scales, as some have said, they are not apparent to the naked eye. Towards the tail its form becomes thin and compressed, and that part is margined for several inches both above and below, as well as around its terminal point, by a narrow membrane or fin, which no doubt greatly aids its movements through the water.
The earliest notice of this singular reptile appears to have been communicated by Dr Garden to Linnæus through the medium of Mr Ellis in the year 1765. He described the simultaneous existence of lungs and gills, and concluded that it was a perfect animal, chiefly because there did not exist in Carolina any species of salamander, or other aquatic creature, of equal size, of which it could be regarded as the larva. It was in consequence of the information received regarding this species that Linnæus, though with hesitation, Ibunded his order of
Amphibia meantes,
of which the most peculiar character consisted in there being “ branchiæ et pulmones simul.” The great Swedish naturalist appears to have been particularly interested by the peculiarities of the siren ; for in his reply to Mr Ellis, acknowledging receipt of Dr Garden’s “ very rare two-footed animal with gills and lungs,” he observes that nothing had ever exercised his thoughts so much, nor was there anything he so greatly desired to know’, as tlle real nature of so extraordinary a creature.
Although Ellis and Hunter wisely regarded the siren as a perfect animal, the propriety of this opinion was by no means universally admitted. Pallas, not perceiving that such metamorphoses as he supposed were rendered impossible by the absence of any germ of the hinder extremities, even in the skeleton, still insisted that the siren was nothing more than the larva of a four-footed salamander.@@2 A similar opinion was maintained by Hermann,@@3 Lacépède,@@4 and Schneider.@@5 About twenty years after the original discovery of the animal, Camper (in 1785) examined a specimen in the British Museum, the condition of which was so bad that he was unable to detect the lungs ; whereupon he took up and promulgated an entirely new view, according to which, without reference to the existence of feet, he declared that the siren was a
fish.
Gmelin, of course, immediately classed it with the eels, and it thus became the Jfiu-
rœna siren
of his edition of the
Systema Naturœ !
Whatever may be thought of Dr Garden’s skill as an anatomist, Camper’s conclusion was certainly somewhat precipitate, in the face of so great an authority as that of John Hunter.
In the year 1800, Baron Cuvier received a young siren from M. de Beauvois. Tbe great French anatomist, whose splendid labours have thrown such a flood of light on so many obscure subjects of zoological science, was not likely to lose the opportunity of settling this still disputed point. In his first observations,@@6 and in an after and more ample memoir,@@7 he has, we think, successfully shown that both the proteus and siren are perfect, that is, completed animals, belonging to different genera of Batrachian reptiles, but quite distinct from either lizards or salamanders in any of their progressive stages. Yet the opposite opinion (so tenacious is error) does not continue without adherents. In an elaborate essay by two Italian authors, Sig. Configliachi and Rusconi, in which the siren is incidentally mentioned, these naturalists infer from analogy, that as the canal of tlle nostrils is not so perforated as to open into the interior of the mouth, so it must be incapable of respiring atmospheric air, and would speedily die if removed from its liquid element.@@8
Now, the value of the living siren observed by Dr Neill for six or seven successive seasons, consisted in this,—that it demonstrated
de facto,
what had been previously a matter of mere logical inference on the part of the anatomist. During the long period of its confinement no change whatever took place, either in its general aspect, or in the form or structure of the feet and gills. Haal it been a larva, it would assuredly have lost these last-named organs during the time of observation. But the most curious result regarding this specimen was obtained accidentally, and happily illustrates the very point on which it was most desirable to obtain information. It is thus related by Dr Neill : “ Although I certainly would not have made the experiment of the fragility of the siren, by throwing it on the ground, and although I would have hesitated to keep the animal out of the water for several hours, while I knew that respectable naturalists doubted if it would live more than a few minutes out of that element, yet it so happened that the creature on one occasion made of its own accord an experiment (if it may be so called) illustrative of both points. The water-box itself (in which the siren dwelt) was ten inches deep : it was placed on a plant trellis or shelf, close by the lower end of the sloping roof-sash of the green-house, and thus stood nearly three feet from the ground. At that pe-
1
@@@ See
Phil. Trans,
lvi. 191 and 307.    @@@3
Tabula AJfinitatum Animalium,
256.    @@@5
JJistoria Amphibiorum,
fascie. 1, 48.
@@@2
Nov. Comm. Pelrop.
xix. 438.    
@@@4
Hist. Nut. des Quadrupèdes Ovipaires,
Gl 1.    
@@@6
Bulletin des Sciences,
an. 8, p. 106.
@@@
7
Recherches Anatomiques,
&c. in Humboldt's
Recueil d Observations de Zoologie,
98—117.
@@@8
Del Prolco Anguino di Laurenii Monographia,
Pavia, 1819.
riod the box happened to leak ; and the gardener therefore filled it up with water between seven and eight o’clock in the evening, at which time the siren was seen safely lodged in the box. The door of the green-house was locked as usual over night, and before it was opened in the morning, the siren, to the great surprise of the gardener, was; found lying on a footpath which passes round the exterior o
∣
f the greenhouse. I was speedily apprized of the circumstance, and on examining the spot, we could most distinctly trace, by a shining glaze, derived from its skin, the passage of thc animal through an edging of heath
(Erica herbacea),
and across a narrow flower-border, to a hole which he had scooped out under the brick-wall of the green-house, in escaping from within. The foundation of this wall, it may be remarked, had intentionally been made shallow, or near to the surface, for the purpose of permitting the roots of some shrubs, planted in the conservatory style within, to penetrate to the exterior border. We possess no data for fixing with certainty the number of hours during which the animal had been out of the water. The box, as already mentioned, being leaky, was filled near to the brim between seven and eight in the evening ; it seems likely that this filling up had disturbed the animal, and that it had been enabled partly to crawl and partly to glide over the margin, while the water yet stood high, or early in the night ; for the water had subsided five or six inches before morning. The escape of so much water had formed, of the soil below, a kind of sludge, probably somewhat analogous in character to the , stiff clay’ of its native swamps, in which it is said sometimes to burrow ; and this must have greatly facilitated
tlle 
first underground operations of the siren. Still, however, as the excavation made was not less than eight inches in depth, and nearly three feet in length, for the ascending aperture on the outside sloped at an angle of about 30°, it seems reasonable to conclude that the siren must have been several hours hard at work in forming so extensive a tunnel for itself. In further proof of its exertions, it may be observed, that a considerable part of the dark-coloured epidermis, or covering of minute indistinct scales, was worn off its snout, and the skin of the upper part of the back was in different places ruffled. The morning waιs very cold, and the mercury in a register-thermometer kept in the green-house had been as low as 33° Fahrenheit at one period of the preceding night. The animal was observed about seven a. m. lying doubled, or with the body bent round, but not coiled, on the footpath. He was exceedingly benumbed, being just able to show signs of life when lifted by the gardener. Considering the evidence of long-continued active exertions during the night, it seems reasonable to ascribe his almost torpid state when found, to the freezing cold which he had encountered when he had made his way fairly to the outside. When first restored to the watery element, the animal breathed hard, rushing to the surface, and opening his mouth with a wide gape to inhale air. He soon
after sunk down, and let several strings of air-bubbles escape. The branchiæ were doubtless to a certain degree dried, and thus obstructed ; and it evidently took some time before they could freely perform their accustomed office. When, however, I again examined him several hours afterwards, he seemed perfectly contented to remain wholly under water ; and on being touched, appeared as lively and as well as ever. The decorticated portions of the back and snout showed us the colour of the true skin below, which was of a pale leaden hue.”@@1
During the first year and a half of the siren’s captivity at Canonmills, his box (filled with moss and water) was placed in a green-house, which merely excluded the severity of winter. He was very sluggish all this time, exhibited few signs of appetite, and from October to May entirely declined food. In the spring of 1827 he was placed in a hot-house intended for the culture of tropical plants, where the temperature was generally about 65°. He there became much more lively, and soon began his song, which, unlike the delusive voice of the ancient sirens, differed little from the croaking of a frog. He then devoured small earthworms with some avidity, and continued the practice without any lengthened intermission till his death in October 1831, after a captivity of nearly six years and a half, during which long period no structural change took place, nor was the slightest tendency to any such change discernible. The death of this reptile was occasioned, we doubt not, as Dr Neill supposes, by the drying up of the fimbriæ of the branchial apparatus, consequent on its having again escaped from its watery reservoir. Though truly amphibious, the siren may certainly be regarded more as an aquatic than a terrestrial creature. Dr Mitchell, indeed, seems to think it most probable that the air-sacs called lungs do not perform any direct respiratory function, but are mere receptacles of air, performing only an auxiliary service, by occasionally furnishing the gills with atmospheric air.@@2
We observed that the siren breathed air rather through the mouth than the nose, and expelled it in the same manner when put into the water, from which it may be inferred, that the nasal organ is in a rudimentary state (in tlle proteus it is said not to exist at all), so far at least as concerns the act of respiration. The eyes of the siren are dim and motionless ; and we did not perceive that an increase of light caused any appearance of contraction or other change. Yet the sight must be tolerably acute, as in pressing a fly downwards under water with the point of a hair pencil, on the side of the vessel in which the reptile lay, it made a catch at the insect almost the moment it touched the surface, and immediately snapped it in two.@@3
Besides the species to which the preceding history and observations apply, two others are known to naturalists as inhabitants of the southern states of North America, viz. the
Siren striata
of Le Conte, and the
Siren intermedia
of that author@@4     (τ.)
@@@1 Jameson’s
Journal,
January—April, 1828.
@@@2 See Λr ea> Kori
Med. and Phy». Journ.
for June 1824 ; and Dr Neill’s additional notice in
Εdirι. Ners Phil. Journ.
xii. 298 (1832).
3 @@@
3
Illustrations of Zoology,
vol. 1st, art. Airen.
@@@4 See
Annals of the Lyceum of New York,
vol. i. ; and Harlan's
American Herpetology,
p. 6.
REPTON, an ancient market-town of the county of Derby, situated in the hundred of Repton cum Gresley, four miles from Burton-on-Trent, and 124· from London. It is a place of great antiquity, having been the residence of the Saxon kings of Mercia during the heptarchy, several of whom are buried in the church, which is still a handsome Gothic building, with a lofty spire. It had once a market, but it is now fallen into neglect. The population amounted in 1801 to 1424, in 1811 to 1648, in 1821 to 1802, and in 1831 to 1758.
REQUENA, a city of Spain, in the province of Cuença, and the capital of a district of the same name. It stands on a height in a valley watered by the river Magro, which is fertile as regards meadows, and produces great quantities of rich fruits. The city contains three churches, seven monasteries, and 6500 inhabitants, who make silk goods from the worms fed on the mulberries growing in the vicinity.
RESENTMENT means a strong perception of good or ill, generally a deep sense of injury, and may be distinguished into
anger
and
revenge.
RESHD, or Resht, a town of Persia, and the capital of the province of Ghilan. It is a large town, with a considerable trade, and well-furnished shops and warehouses. It is so enveloped in trees, that no idea can be formed of it taken in any one point of view. Exclusive of the bazaars, which occupy a considerable space in the centre of the tow, n, it is composed of small compartments, divided for the most part by narrow and obscure alleys. There are not many principal streets ; and only some of them are paved, whilst others have merely a little gravel thrown in the centre for the water to run on, and some are left unfashioned in any way, except in having a raised pathway at the sides for foot-passengers, which is of great convenience in wet weather. The bazaars or shops, of which there are said to be 1200, are extensive, regular, clean, and well kept. They are well paved, but not entirely covered in from the weather. Instead of arched or domed roofs, extending from one side of the street to the other, the roofs only project nearly to the centre of the street, covering the shops and foot-passengers. There is in this town a bustle and hum of business, more than is seen in most of Persian towns. Natives of various countries are seen passing and repassing on the pavement below ; and persons of every occupation, busily following their several callings, animate the scene, and enliven it with their gay costumes. This town swarms with beggars of all descriptions, beyond what can easily be conceived. They are covered with leprosy, and cutaneous disorders the most revolting. The opium-eaters are among the most miserable of these objects. The religious mendicants, or fakeers and dervishes, are also very numerous, and the most impudent of all. There were formerly Russians, Armenians, and Jews in this city ; but they were forced away by the bigotry and intolerance of the inhabitants, who reviled every foreigner that professed a different creed from their own. Reshd is one of the most considerable entrepôts on the Caspian for exchanging the commodities of Persia with those of Astracan, and is the chief mart for silk, the staple produce of the province. The rate of interest for money is from four to tw elve per cent, per month ;
but this last rate is seldom paid. Fraser, who visited this place in 1822, was at pains to ascertain the amount of the population ; and from every inquiry he could make, he estimated the male inhabitants at between thirty and forty thousand ; and, considering other circumstances, the appearance of the markets and other public places, he estimates the whole population at eighty thousand. Reshd is an inland town, and all its maritime trade is carried on through the port of Ezellee. Long. 49. 50. E. Lat. 37. 20. N.
RESIDUAL Analysis, a calculus invented by Mr Landen, and proposed as a substitute for the method of fluxions. The design of it was to avoid introducing tlle idea of motion, and of quantities infinitely small, into mathematical investigation. The residual analysis accordingly proceeds by taking the difference of the same function of a variable quantity in two different states of the said variable quantity, and denoting the relation of this difference to the difference between the two states of the said variable quantity. This relation being first generally expressed, is next considered in the case when the difference of the two states of the variable quantity is = 0 ; and by that means it is obvious that the same thing is done as when the function cf a variable quantity is assigned by the ordinary methods.
The evolutions of the functions, considered in this very general view, require the aid of a new theorem, discovered by Mr Landen, and remarkable for its simplicity and great extent. It is, that if
x
and
v
are any two variable quantities
J-Z
   1 +^ + g +
g+......(w )
- — χn
y-
X- V
   m    2m    3m
-+eΛ(i)'÷er......<->
where
m
and
n
are any integer numbers.
This theorem is the basis of tlle calculus, and from the m ™
expressions
xn — vn ,
and
x— v
having the form of what algebraists denominate
residuals,
the inventor gave to his method the name of the
residual analysis.
Mr Landen published the first account of this method in 1758, which he denominated a Discourse concerning the Residual Analysis. The first book of the analysis appeared in 1764, and contained an explanation of the principles
of 
the new’ calculus, with its application to problems of the direct method of fluxions ; the second book, which solved several problems of the inverse method, was never published.
Residual
Figure,
in
Geometry,
the figure remaining after the subtraction of the less from the greater.
Residual
Root
is a root composed of two members only connected by the sign — or minus. Thus, β—
b,
or 5 — 3, is a residual root ; and is so called, because its true value is no more than the residue or difference between the parts 
a
and
b
or 5 and 3, which in this case is 2.
RESINA, a town of Italy, in the kingdom of Naples, on the sea-shore. It is situated near to Fortici, and is built on the ruins of Herculaneum, at the foot of Mount Vesuvius, and in the way by which it is commonly ascended. It contains about 7706 inhabitants, who are mostly cultivators of vines, and produce the wine lachryma Christi.
Resistance,
or Resisting Forcefm Philosophy,
denotes, in general, any power which acts in an opposite direction to another, so as to destroy or diminish its effect- See Mechanics, Hydrodynamics, and Pneumatics.
Of all the resistances of bodies to each other, there is undoubtedly none of greater importance than the resistance or re-action of fluids. It is here that we must look for a theory of naval architecture ; for the impulse of the air, which is our moving power, must be modified so as to produce every motion we want by the form and disposition of our sails ; and the resistance of the water, which is the force to be overcome, must also be modified to our purpose, in order that the ship may not drive like a log to leeward, but, on the contrary, may ply to windward ; that she may answer her helm briskly, and be easy in all her motions on the surface of the ocean. The impulse of wind and water makes these elements ready and indefatigable servants in a thousand shapes for driving our machines, and we should lose much of their service did we remain ignorant of the laws of their action ; they would sometimes become terrible masters, if we did not fall upon methods of eluding or softening their attacks.
We cannot read the accounts of the naval exertions of Phoenicia, Carthage, and of Rome, exertions which have hardly been surpassed by anything of modem date, without believing that the ancients possessed much practical and experimental knowledge of this subject. It was not, perhaps, possessed by them in a strict and systematic form, as it is now taught by our mathematicians ; but the master-builders, in their dockyards, did undoubtedly exercise their genius in marking those circumstances of form and dimension which were,
in fact,
accompanied with the desirable properties of a ship, aqd thus frame to themselves maxims of naval architecture, in the same manner as we do now. The ancients had not made any great progress in the phy-sico-mathematical sciences, which consist chiefly in the application of analysis to the phenomena of nature ; and in this branch, in particular, they could make none, because they had not the means of investigation. A knowledge of the motions and actions of fluids is accessible only to those who are familiarly acquainted with the Auxionary mathematics ; and without this key there is no admittance. Even when possessed of this guide, our progress has been very slow, hesitating, and devious ; and we have not yet been able to establish any set of doctrines which are susceptible of an easy and confident application to the arts of life. If we have advanced farther than the ancients, it is because we have come after them, and have profited by their labours, and even by their mistakes.
Sir Isaac Newton was the first who attempted to make the motions and actions of fluids the subject of mathematical discussion. He had invented the method of fluxions long before he engaged in his physical researches, and he proceeded in these swα
mathesi facem proferente.
Yet even with this guide he was often obliged to grope his way, and to try various by-paths, in the hope of obtaining a legitimate theory. Having exerted all his powers in establishing a theory of the lunar motions, he was obliged to rest contented with an approximation instead of a perfect solution of tbe problem which ascertains the motions of three bodies mutually acting on each other. This convinced him that it was in vain to expect an accurate investigation of the motions and actions of fluids, where millions of unseen particles combine their influence. He therefore endeavoured to find some particular case of the problem which would admit of an accurate determination, and at the same time furnish circumstances of analogy or resemblance sufficiently numerous for giving the limits of those other cases that did not admit of this accurate investigation.
Newton figured to himself a hypothetical collection of matter possessing the characteristic property of fluidity, viz. the
quaquaversum
propagation of pressure, and the most perfect intermobility of parts, and forming a physical whole or aggregate, whose parts were connected by mechanical forces determined both in degree and in direction, so that the determination of certain important cireumstances of the motion of the parts might be rendered susceptible of precise investigation. And he concluded that the laws which he should discover in these motions must have a great analogy wfith the laws of the motions of real fluids : and from this hypothesis he deduced a series of propositions, which form the basis of almost all the theories of the impulse and resistance of fluids which have been offered to the public since his time.
It must be acknowledged that the results of this theory agree but ill with experiment, and that, in the way in which it has been prosecuted by subsequent mathematicians, it proceeds on principles or assumptions which are not only gratuitous, but even false. But, with all its imperfections, it still furnishes (as was expected by its illustrious author) many propositions of immense practical use, they being the limits to which the real phenomena of the impulse and resistance of fluids really approximate ; so that when the law by which the phenomena deviate from the theory is once determined by a well-chosen series of experiments, this hypothetical theory becomes almost as valuable as a true one. It continues to be the groundwork of all our practical knowledge of the subject.
We shall therefore lay before our readers a very short view of the theory, and the manner of applying it; we shall then show its defects (all of which were pointed out by its great author), and recount some of the attempts which have been made to amend it ; and, lastly, we shall give an account of the chief sets of experiments which have been made on this important subject, in the hope of establishing an empirical theory, which may be employed with confidence in the arts of life.
We know by experience that force must be applied to a body in order that it may move through a fluid, such as air or water ; and that a body projected with any velocity is gradually retarded in its motion, and generally brought to rest. Analogy leads us to imagine that there is a force acting in the opposite direction, or opposing the motion, and that this force resides in or is exerted by the fluid ; and the phenomena resemble those which accompany the known resistance of active beings, such as animals ; therefore we give to this supposed force the metaphorical name of Resistance. We also know that a fluid in motion will hurry a solid body along with the stream, and that force is required to maintain it in its place. A similar analogy makes us suppose that the fluid exerts force, in the same manner as when an active being impels the body before him ; therefore we call this the
Impulsion of a Fluid.
And as our knowledge of nature teaches us that the mutual actions of bodies are in every case equal and opposite, and that the observed change of motion is only the indication and measure of the changing force, the forces are the same, whether we call them impulsions or resistances, when the relative motions are the same, and therefore depend entirely on these relative motions. The force, therefore, which is necessary for keeping a body immoveable in a stream of water flowing with a certain velocity, is the same with what
is required for moving this body with this velocity through stagnant water.
A body in motion appears to be resisted by a stagnant fluid, because it is a law of nature that force must be employed in order to put any body in motion. Now the body cannot move forward without putting the contiguous fluid in motion, and force must be employed for producing this motion. In like manner, a quiescent body is impelled by a stream of fluid, because the motion of the contiguous fluid is diminished by this solid obstacle ; the resistance, therefore, or impulse, no way differs from the ordinary communications of motion among solid bodies.
Sir Isaac Newton, therefore, begins his theory of the resistance and impulse of fluids, by selecting a case where, although he cannot pretend to ascertain the motions themselves which are produced in the particles of a contiguous fluid, he can tell precisely their mutual ratios. He supposes two systems of bodies such, that each body of the first is similar to a corresponding body of the second, and that each is to each in a constant ratio. He also supposes them to be similarly situated, that is, at the angles of similar figures, and that the homologous lines of these figures are in the same ratio with the diameters of the bodies. He farther supposes that they attract or repel each other in similar directions, and that the accelerating connecting forces are also proportional ; that is, the forces in the one system are to the corresponding forces in the other system in a constant ratio, and that, in each system taken apart, the forces are as the squares of the velocities directly, and as the diameters of the corresponding bodies, or their distances, inversely.
This being the case, it follows, that if similar parts of the two systems are put into similar motions in any given instant, they will
continue
to move similarly, each correspondent body describing similar curves, with proportional velocities : For the bodies being similarly situated, the forces which act on a body in one system, arising from the combination of any number of adjoining particles, will have the same direction with the force acting on the corresponding body in the other system, arising from the combined action of the similar and similarly directed forces of the adjoining correspondent bodies of the other system ; and these compound forces will have the same ratio with the simple forces which constitute them, and will be as the squares of the velocities directly, and as the distances, or any homologous lines, inversely ; and therefore the chords of curvature, having the direction of the centripetal or centrifugal forces, and similarly inclined to the tangents of the curves described by the corresponding bodies, will have the same ratio with the distances of tlle particles. The curves described by the corresponding bodies will therefore be similar, the velocities will be proportional, and the bodies will be similarly situated at the end of the first moment, and exposed to the action of similar and similarly situated centripetal or centrifugal forces ; and this will again produce similar motions during the next moment, and so on for ever. All this is evident to any person acquainted with the elementary doctrines of curvilineal motions, as delivered in the theory of physical astronomy.
From this fundamental proposition, it clearly follows, that if two similar bodies, having tlleir homologous lines proportional to those of the two systems, be similarly projected among the bodies of those two systems with any velocities, they will produce similar motions in the two systems, and will themselves continue to move similarly, and therefore w'ill, in every subsequent moment, suffer similar diminutions or retardations. If the initial velocities of projection be the same, but the densities of the two systems, that is, the quantities of matter contained in an equal bulk or extent, be different, it is evident that the quantities of motion produced in the two systems in the same time will be proportional to
the densities ; and if the densities are the same and uniform in each system, the quantities of motion produced will be as the squares of the velocities, because the motion communicated to each corresponding body will be proportional to the velocity communicated, that is, to the velocity of the impelling body ; and the number of similarly situated particles which will be agitated will also be proportional to this velocity. Therefore the whole quantities of motion produced in the same moment of time will be proportional to tlle squares of the velocities. And, lastly, if the densities of the two systems are uniform or the same through the whole extent of the systems, the number of particles impelled by similar bodies will be as the surfaces of these bodies.
Now the diminutions of the motions of the projected bodies are (by Newton’s third law of motion) equal to the motions produced in the systems ; and these diminutions are the measures of what are called the resistances opposed to the motions of the projected bodies. Therefore, combining all these circumstances, we have the following proposition.
Prop. I. The resistances and (by the third law of motion) the impulsions of fluids on similar bodies, are proportional to the surfaces of the solid bodies, to the densities of the fluids, and to the squares of the velocities, jointly.
We must now observe, that when we suppose the particles of the fluid to be in mutual contact, we may either suppose them elastic or unelastic. The motion communicated to the collection of elastic particles must be double of what the same body, moving in the same manner, would communicate to the particles of an unelastic fluid. The impulse and resistance of elastic fluids must therefore be double of those of unelastic fluids. And thus the fundamental proposition of the impulse and resistance of fluids, taken in its proper meaning, is susceptible of a rigid demonstration, relative to the only distinct notion that we can form of the internal constitution of a fluid. We say
taken in its proper meaning,
namely, that the impulse or resistance of fluids is a pressure, opposed and measured by another pressure, such as a pound weight, the force of a spring, the pressure of the atmosphere, and the like. We apprehend that it would be very difficult to find any legitimate demonstration of this leading proposition different from this, which we have now borrowed from Sir Isaac Newton, Prop. 23, b. ii.
Princfl.
We acknowledge that it is prolix, and even circuitous ; but in all the attempts made by his commentators and their copyists to simplify it, we see great defects of logical argument, or assumption of principles which are not only gratuitous, but inadmissible.
Before we proceed farther, it will be proper to make a general remark, which will save a great deal of discussion. Since it is a matter of universal experience, that every action of a body on others is accompanied by an equal and contrary re-action ; and since all that we can demonstrate concerning the resistance of bodies during their motions through fluids proceeds on this supposition (the resistance of the body being
assumed
as equal and opposite to the sum of motions communicated to the particles of the fluid, estimated in the direction of the body’s motion), we are entitled to proceed in the contrary order, and to consider the impulsions which each of the particles of fluid exerts on the body at rest, as equal and opposite to the motion which the body would communicate to that particle if the fluid were at rest, and the body were moving with equal velocity in the opposite direction. And therefore the whole impulsion of the fluid must be conceived as the measure of the whole motion which the body would thus communicate to the fluid. It must therefore be also considered as the measure of the resistance which the body, moving with the same velocity, would sustain from the fluid. When, therefore, we
demonstrate anything concerning the impulsion of a fluid, estimated in the direction of its motion, we must consider it as demonstrated concerning the resistance of a quiescent fluid to the motion of that body, having the same velocity in the opposite direction. The determination of these impulsions being much easier than the determination of the motions communicated by the body to the particles of the fluid, this method will be followed in most of the subsequent discussions.
The general proposition already delivered is by no means sufficient for explaining the various important phenomena observed in the mutual actions of solids and fluids. In particular, it gives us no assistance in ascertaining the modifications of this resistance or impulse, which depend on the shape of the body and the inclination of its impelled or resisted surface to the direction of the motion. Sir Isaac Newton found another hypothesis necessary ; namely, that the fluid should be so extremely rare, that the distance of the particles may be incomparably greater than tlleir diameters. This additional condition is necessary for considering their actions as so many separate collisions or impulsions on a solid body. Each particle must be supposed to have abundant room to rebound, or otherwise escape, after having made its stroke, without sensibly affecting the situations and motions of the particles which have not yet made their stroke ; and the velocity must be so great as not to give time for the sensible exertion of their mutual forces of attraction and repulsion.
Keeping these conditions in mind, we may proceed to determine the impulsions made by a fluid on surfaces of every kind. The most convenient method of proceeding in this determination, is to compare them all either with the impulse which the
same surface
would receive from the fluid impinging on it perpendicularly, or with the impulse which the
same stream of fluid
would make when coming perpendicularly on a surface of such extent as to occupy the whole stream.
It will be convenient to premise the following definitions.
By a
stream,
we mean a quantity of fluid moving in one direction, that is, all the particles moving in parallel lines ; and the
breadth
of the stream is a line perpendicular to all these parallels.
A
filament
is a portion of this stream of very small breadth, and it consists of an indefinite number of particles following one another in the same direction, and successively impinging on, or gliding along, the surface of the solid body.
The
base
of any surface exposed to a stream of fluid, is that portion of a plane perpendicular to the stream, which is covered or protected from the action of the stream by the surface exposed to its impulse. Thus the base of a sphere exposed to a stream of fluid is its great circle, whose plane is perpendicular to the stream.
Direct impulse
expresses the energy or action of the particle or filament, or stream of fluid, when meeting the surface perpendicularly, or when the surface is perpendicular to the direction of the stream.
Absolute impulse
means the actual pressure on the impelled surface, arising from the action of the fluid, whether striking the surface perpendicularly or obliquely ; or it is the force impressed on the surface, or tendency to motion which it acquires, and which must be opposed by an equal force in the opposite direction, in order that the surface may be maintained in its place. It is of importance to keep in mind, that this pressure is always perpendicular to the surface.
Relative
or
effective impulse
means the pressure on the surface estimated in some particular direction.
The
angle of incidence
is the angle contained between tne direction of the stream and the impelled plane.
The
angle of obliquity
is the angle contained between
Prop. III. The direct impulse on any surface is to the effective oblique impulse on the same surface, as the cube of radius to the solid, which has for its base the square of the sine of incidence, and the sine of obliquity for its height.
Let GO be the direction, and draw IO perpendicular to
GO. Now, when GH represents the direct impulse of a particle, GI is the absolute oblique impulse, and GO is the effective impulse in the direction GO : But GI is to GO as radius to the sine of GIO, and GIO is the complement of IGO, and is therefore equal to CGO, the angle of obliquity ; whence, assuming p to denote the effective oblique impulse, and O = the angle of obliquity, we have
the plane and the direction in which we wish to estimate the impulse.
Prop. II. The direct impulse of a fluid on a plane surface, is to its absolute oblique impulse on the same surface, as the square of the radius to the square of the sine of the angle of incidence.
Let a stream of fluid, moving in the direction FG (fig.
1), act on the plane BC.
Draw CA perpendicular to FG, and equal to CB, and BD parallel to FG, meeting AC in D. Let the particle F, moving in the direction FG, meet the plane in.G, and in FG produced take GH to represent the magnitude of the direct impulse, or the impulse which the particle would exert on the plane AC, by meeting it in E.
Also draw GI and HK perpendicular to BC, and HI perpendicular to GL
The force GH is equivalent to the two forces GI and GK ; and GK being in the direction of the plane, has no share in the impulse. The absolute impulse, therefore, is represented by GI; the angle GHI is equal to FGC, the angle of incidence ; and therefore GH is to GI as radius to the sine of the angle of incidence : Therefore the direct impulse of each particle or filament is to its absolute oblique impulse as radius to the sine of the angle of incidence. But further, the number of particles or filaments which strike the surface AC, is to the number of those which strike the surface BC as AC to DC : for all the filaments between A and D go past the oblique surface BC without striking it. But BC : DC = rad. : sin. DBC, = rad. : sin. FGC, = rad. : sin. incidence. Now the whole impulse is as the impulse of each filament, and as the number of filaments exerting equal impulses jointly ; therefore the whole direct impulse on AC is to the whole absolute impulse on B C, as the square of radius to the square of the sine of the angle of incidence.
Let F represent the direct impulse,/the absolute oblique impulse, A the area of the plane, and
i
the angle of incidence ; and let the tabular sines and cosines be considered as decimal fractions of the radius 1. The proposition gives us F
tf —
1 : sin? », and therefore∕= F × sin? f. Also, because impulses are in the proportion of the extent of surface similarly impelled, we have, in general,/ = FA × sin? ».
The first who published this theorem was Pardies, in his
Œuvres de Mathématique,
in 1673. Newton, however, had investigated the chief proposition of the
Principia
before 1670.
j : φ =
rad. : sin. O.
But F : ∕ = rad.2 : sin.s
i ;
therefore F :
φ
= rad? : sin?
t ×
sin. O, whence, since rad. = 1, 
φ
= F × sin.2
i X
sin. O.
Cor.
The direct impulse on any surface is to the effective oblique impulse in the direction of the stream, as the cube of radius to the cube of the sine of incidence. For in this case GO coincides with GH, and the angle GIO becomes GIL (IL being perpendicular to GH), equal to BGH tlle angle of incidence, that is, we have
i
= O ; whence
p = F sin.3 ».
Prop. IV. The whole direct impulse of a stream of fluid whose breadth is given, is to its oblique effective impulse in the direction of the stream, as the square of radius to the square of the sine of the angle of incidence.
For the number of filaments which occupy the oblique plane BC (fig. 1), would occupy the portion DC of a perpendicular plane, and therefore we have only to compare the perpendicular impulse on any point E with the effective impulse made by the same filament FE on the oblique plane at G. Now GH represents the impulse which this filament would make at E ; and GL is the effective impulse of the same filament at G, estimated in the direction GH of the stream ; and GH is to GL as GIP to GF, that is, as rad? : sin?
i
= 1 : sin? i.
Cor.
L The effective impulse in the direction of the stream on any plane surface BC, is to the direct impulse on its base CD, as the square of the sine of the angle of incidence to the square of the radius.
Cor.
2. If an isosceles wedge ACB (fig. 2) be exposed to a stream of fluid moving in the direction of its height CD, the impulse on the sides is to the direct impulse on the base as the square of AD half the base to the square of the side A C, or as the square of the sine of half the angle of the wedge to the square of the radius. For it is evident, that in this case the two transverse impulses balance each other, and the only impulse which can be observed is the sum of the two impulses in the direction of the stream which are to be compared with the impulses on the two halves AD, BD of the base. Now AC : AD =rad. : sin. ACD, and ACD is equal to the angle of incidence ; therefore, by the proposition, the direct impulse on AD is to the effective oblique impulse on AC, as ACt : AD2 , or as 1 : sin.2 ACD.
Hence, if the angle ACB is a right angle, and ACD is half a right angle, the square of AC is twice the square of AD, and the impulse on the sides of a rectangular wedge is half the impulse on its base.
Also, if a cube ACBE be exposed to a stream moving in a direction perpendicular to one of its sides, and then to a stream moving in a direction perpendicular to one of its diagonal planes, the impulse in the first case will be to the impulse in the second as Vz 2 to 1. Call the perpendicular impulse on a side F, and the perpendicular impulse on its diagonal plane
f,
and the effective oblique impulse on its side (P ; we have
F :/=AC : AB =1 : √2,
∕: p = AC2 : AD= 2 : 1.
Thcrefore F:
φ
= 2 :
s/2
= √, 2 : 1 ; or very nearly as 10 to 7.
The same reasoning will apply to a pyramid whose base is a regular polygon, and whose axis is perpendicular to the base. If such a pyramid is exposed to a stream of fluid moving in the direction of the axis, the direct impulse on the base is to the effective impulse on the pyramid, as the square of the radius to the square of the sine of the angle which the axis makes with the sides of the pyramid.
Prop. V. To compare the effective impulse on a cylinder, or half cylinder, with the direct impulse on a transverse plane passing through its axis.
Let BAB' (fig. 3) be a section Ofthehalfcylinder perpendicular to the axis, supposed to be struck by the fluid in the direction AC. Take any point P in AB, draw PQ perpendicular to AC, and let
pq
be parallel to PQ at an infinitely small distance, and Pr parallel to AC. Let AQ =
x,
PQ =
y,
and AP =
z ;
then Pr =
dx, ρr — dy,
and 
Pp =z dz.
By corollary 1 to last proposition, the effective impulse in the direction of the stream on
Pp
is to the direct impulse on 
pr
as ∕w2 :
Pp2 = dys : dza .
Hence, if∕ denote the direct impulse on
pr,
the ef-
√
∣
∕2
fective impulse on
Pp
is ∕
-F.
Assume F to denote the whole direct impulse on the radius CB = β ; we have then/:
F = dy : a,
whence/
=F ~,
and the effective im-
dι∕3
pulse on
Pp
becomes F    Hence the effective impulse
on the arc APB is — ∕*⅜.
a J dz-
Tlns expression is general, and gives the resistance on any curve whatever. In the present case, on joining PC, we have
pr : Vp
= CQ : PC, or
dy : dz = a—x
: n, whence
g = <±≠ = ⅛
∖
therefore    The
αz' ui    u2     dz* α2
integτal of this is
y — j—
+ C, which from
y —
O to
y — a
gives T~zzα—
⅙
a = ξa.
Midtiplying by F -+σ, we get impulse on AB = § F ;
consequently the impulse on BAB' is two thirds of the direct impulse on BB', and the impulse on the half cylinder two thirds of the impulse on the plane passing through its axis perpendicular to the stream.
Prop. VI. To compare the effective impulse on a solid of revolution, in the direction of its axis, with the direct impulse on its base.
Let APB (fig.4)be Rlegeneratingcurve, AC the axis, AQ
= x,
and PQ =
y.
By the last pro
position, the oblique impulse on Pjo
in the direction of the stream, is
proportional to ; whence, since
the circumference described by the
point P in a complete revolution
is 2ιrz∕ (sr being the semi-circum
ference to radius 1), the oblique
impulse on the ring formed by the
revolution of
Pp
about the axis AC, is proportional to f ∕,,ι
2wy
-ρi ,
and consequently the impulse on the whole sur-
-    „ z∙
, lv3
face to
2<zJ yf~i -
i This is the general expression for the impulse on a solid
dtf
' of revolution. On eliminating
j-,
by means of the equation of the generating curve, it gives the amount of the relative impulse in each particular case.
As an example, suppose APB to be the quadrant of a circle, the equation of which is y2 =
2ax— P.
From the last proposition we have
dz2 = -"
w hence 2τ
J"
qf -⅛f
= 2r !    dy,
which, being integrated on tlle sup
position that
y
varies from
y
= O to
y = a,
becomes 2» (½ o2 — ¼ α2 ) = ½ τ α2 . This is the oblique impulse on the sphere or hemisphere in the direction of the axis. The direct impulse on a great circle is proportional to its area, that is, to σα2 ; therefore the impulse or resistance of a sphere is one half the direct resistance of the plane of its great circle.
As a second example, let AB be a straight line, the equation of which is
y = x
tan.
φ.
In this case
dyi = dx,
tan.2
φ, dz2
= (1 + tan?
φ) dx°-
= sec?
φ dx2 ;
therefore 2»
J'
y
= 2«r sin?
if Jydy — gaf
sin?
φ,
which between the limits
y —
O and
y = a,
gives the whole effective impulse on the cone formed by the revolution of AP about AC proportioned to
vai
sin?
φ,
that is, to the area of the base multiplied by the square of the sine of the inclination of the sides to the axis.
Prop.
VII. To determine the frustum of a triangular prism of a given base and altitude, which, moving in a fluid in a direction perpendicular to its base, is resisted the least possible.
Let BC (fig. 5) be the base, ED the altitude, of the frustum
PBCQ of the wedge ABC, the axis of which is AD. Draw PM parallel to AD. By Proposition II. tlle oblique effective impulse on PB is equal to the direct impulse on MB, multiplied by the square of the sine of BPM. But by Proposition I. the direct impulse on MB is proportional to MB ; therefore the oblique impulse on PB is proportional to MB sin.2 BPM.
Apd the direct impulse on PE is proportional to PE ; therefore the whole force acting on EP and PB (or on PQ, PB, and QC, that is to say, the whole resistance on the frustum), is proportional to PE + MB sin.2 BPM.
Let ED = «, DB = 6, and the angle BPM (= BAD) = φ.
We have then MB =
a
tan.
φ,
and PE = DB — MB = ό —
a
tan.
φ
; hence the resistance on the frustum is proportional to
b — a
tan.
φ + a
tan.
φ
sin.2
φ,
that is, to 
b — a
tan.
φ
( 1 — sin? p) =
b — α
sin.
φ
cos.
φ.
Now this will be a minimum when
a
sin.
φ
cos.
φ
is a maximum. On differentiating sin.
φ
cos.
φ,
and making the result = O, we have cos?
φ
= sin?
φ,
whence cos.
φ —
sin.
φ,
and consequently
φ
= 45°, or PM = MB.
Prop.
VIII. To determine the frustum of a cone of a given base and altitude, which, moving in the direction of its axis, shall be resisted the least possible.
Let PBCQ (fig. 5) be the frustum, moving in the direction of the axis DE. The resistance to the frustum is equal to the direct impulse on PQ, together with the oblique im
pulse on the sides PB and QC. But by Prop. I. the direct impulse on the section PQ is proportional to PE2 ; and if ABC be the whole cone, the resistance on the sides of the frustum PBCQ is equal to that on the whole cone, diminished by that on the cone APQ. Now, by Prop. VI. the resistance on the cone ABC is proportional to BD2 sin?
φ, 
and that on the cone APQ is proportional to PEs sin?
φ ; 
therefore on the conical surface of the frustum it is proportional to (BD2 — PEi ) sin?
φ,
and on the whole frustum proportional to PE2 + (BD2 — PE2 ) sin?
φ
= PE2 cos?
φ 
+ BDa sin?
φ.
Let ED =
a,
and DB =
b.
We have then BM = α tan.
φ,
and PE
= b — a
tan.
φ ;
whence PE2 =
b, —2abtan.φ
+ o2 tan?
φ,
and PEt cos?
φ-bt
cos?
φ — 2 ab
sin.
φ
cos.
φ
+ β2 sin?
φ,
and consequently PE2 cos?
φ
+ BD2 sin? p = Zr—
2αb
sin. f cos. p+ α2 sin?
φ. 
In order that the resistance may be a minimum, the differential of this expression must be O. Differentiating, and dividing by
dφ,
and leaving out the common multiplier 2α, we get O = —
b
cos?
φ + b
sin?
φ + a
sin.
φ
cos.
φ, 
whence
a
sin.
φ
cos.
φ = b
(cos?
φ —
sin?
φ), 
or    
½ a
sin.
2<p = b
cos.
2φ,
and therefore
b = ½ a
tan. 2
φ.
Let ED be bisected in F, and join FB ; we have then BD = FD tan. BFD, or Z
∣
= 
½ a
tan. BFD, so that BFD = 2
φ
; whence, since BFD = FAB + ABF, it follows that ABF is equal to FAB, and consequently AF = FB. This property determines the frustum, for F is a given point.
From the same principies, Sir Isaac Newton determined the form of the curve which would generate the solid which, of all othe⅛s of the same length and base, should have the least resistance. The investigation, however, is not introduced here, for reasons which will soon appear.
The reader cannot fail to observe, that all that has hitherto been said on this subject relates to the comparison of different impulses or resistances. We have always compared the oblique impulsions with the direct, and by their intervention we compare the oblique impulsions with each other. But it remains to give absolute measures of some individual impulsion, to which, as an unit, we may refer every other. And as it is by their pressure that they become useful or hurtful, and they must be opposed by other pressures, it becomes extremely convenient to compare them with that pressure with which we are most familiarly acquainted, the pressure of gravity.
The manner in which the comparison is made is this. When a body advances in a fluid with a known velocity, it puts a known quantity of the fluid into motion (as is supposed) with this velocity ; and this is done in a known time. We have only to examine what weight will put this quantity of fluid into the same motion, by acting on it during the same time. This weight is conceived as equal to the resistance. Thus, let us suppose that a stream of water, moving at the rate of eight feet per second, is perpendicularly obstructed by a square foot of solid surface held fast in its place. Conceiving water to act in the manner of the hypothetical fluid above described, and to be without elasticity, the whole effect is the gradual annihilation of the motion of eight cubic feet of water moving eight feet in a second. And this is done in a second of time. It is equivalent to the gradually putting eight cubic feet of water into motion with this velocity, and doing this by acting uniformly during a second. The question then arises, what weight is able to produce this effect ? Now' the weight of eight feet of water, acting during a second on it, will, as is well known, give it the velocity of thirty-two feet per second ; that is, four times greater. Therefore, the weight of tlle fourth part of eight cubic feet, that is, the weight of two cubic feet, acting during a second, will do the same thing, or the w, eight of a column of water whose base is a
square foot, and whose height is two feet. This will not only produce the effect in the same time with the impulsion of the solid body, but it will also do it by the same degrees, as any one will clearly perceive, by attending to the gradual acceleration of the mass of water urged by one fourth of its weight, and comparing this with the gradual production or extinction of motion in the fluid by the progress of the resisted surface.
Now it is well known that eight cubic feet of water, by falling one foot, which it will do in one fourth of a second, will acquire the velocity of eight feet per second by its weight ; therefore the force which produces the same effect in a whole second is one fourth of this. This force is therefore equal to the weight of a column of water whose base is a square foot and whose height is two feet ; that is, twice the height necessary for acquiring the velocity of the motion by gravity. The conclusion is the same whatever be the surface that is resisted, whatever be the fluid that resists, and whatever be the velocity of the motion. In this inductive and familiar manner we learn, that
the direct impulse or resistance of an unelastic fluid on any plane surface, is equal to the weight of a column of the fluid having the surface for its base, and twice the fall necessary for acquiring the velocity of the motion for its height;
and if the fluid is considered as elastic, the impulse or resistance is twice as great. See Newt.
Priecip.
b. ii. prop. 35 and 38.
It now remains to compare this theory with experiment. Numerous experiments have been made ; but it is much to be lamented that, in a matter of such importance, there is so great a disagreement in the results. Those of Sir Isaac Newton were chiefly made by tlle oscillations of pendulums in water, and by the descent of balls both in water and in air. Many were made by Mariotte
(Traité de Mouvement des Eaux).
Gravesande has published, in his
System of Natural Philosophy,
experiments on the resistance or impulsions on solids in the middle of a pipe or canal. They are extremely well contrived, but are on so small a scale that they are of very little use. Daniel Bernoulli, and his pupil Professor Krafft, have published, in the
Comment. Acad. PetropoF
experiments on the impulse of a stream or vein of water from an orifice or tube ; these are of great value. The Abbe Bossut has published others of the same kind in his
Hydrodyriamique.
Mr Robins has published, in his
New Principles of Gunnery,
many valuable experiments on the impulse and resistance of air. The Chevalier de Borda, in the
Mem. Acad, Paris,
1763 and 1767, has given experiments on the resistance of air, and also of water, which are very interesting. The most complete collection of experiments on the resistance of water are those made at the public expense by a committee of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, consisting of the Marquis Condorcet, D’Alembert, the Abbé Bossut, and others. The Chevalier Du Buat, in his 
Hydraulique,
has published some most curious and valuable experiments, where many important subjects are taken notice of, which had never been attended to before, and which give a view of thc subject totally different from what is usually taken of it. Don George d’Ulloa, in his
Examen Maritimo,
has also given some important experiments similar to those adduced by Bouguer in his
Manœuvre des Vaisseaux,
but leading to very different conclusions. All these should be consulted by such as would acquire a practical knowledge of this subject. We must content ourselves with giving their most general results.
1. It is in accordance with experiment that the resistances are proportional to the squares of the velocities. When the velocities of w ater do not exceed a few feet per second, no sensible deviation is observed. In very small velocities the resistances are sensibly greater than in this proportion, and this excess is plainly owing to the viscidity or imperfect fluidity of water. Sir Isaac Newton has shown that the resistance arising from this cause is constant, or the same in every velocity ; and when he deducted a certain part of the total resistance, he found the remainder was very exactly proportionable to the square of the velocity. His experiments for the purpose of ascertaining this point were made with balls a very little heavier than water, so as to descend very slowly ; and they were made with his usual care and accuracy, and may be depended on.
In the experiments made with bodies floating on the surface of water, there is an addition to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. The water heaps up a little1  on the anterior surface of the floating body, and is depressed behind it. Hence arises a hydrostatical pressure acting in concert with the true resistance. A similar thing is observed in the resistance of air, which is condensed before the body and rarefied behind it, and thus an additional resistance is produced by the unbalanced elasticity of the air, and also because the air which is
actually
displaced is denser than common air. These circumstances cause the resistances to increase faster than the squares of the velocities ; but, even independently of this, there is an additional resistance arising from the tendency to rarefaction behind a body moving very swiftly ; because the pressure of the surrounding fluid can only make the fluid fill the space left with a determined velocity.
We have had occasion to speak of this circumstance more particularly under Gunnery and Pneumatics, when considering very rapid motions. Mr Robins had remarked that the velocity at which the observed resistance of the air began to increase so prodigiously, was that of about IlOO or 1200 feet per second, and that this was the velocity with which air would rush into a void. He concluded that when the velocity was greater than this, the ball was exposed to the additional resistance arising from the unbalanced statical pressure of the air, and that it was necessary to add this constant quantity to the resistance arising from the air’s inertia in all greater velocities. This is very reasonable ; but he imagined that in smaller velocities there was no such unbalanced pressure. But this cannot be the case ; for although in smaller velocities the air will fill up the space behind the body, it will not fill it up with air of the same density, otherwise the motion of the air into the deserted place must be conceived to be instantaneous. There must therefore be a rarefaction behind the body, and a pressure backward arising from unbalanced elasticity, independent of the condensation on the anterior part. The condensation and rarefaction are owing to the same cause, viz. the limited elasticity of the air. Were this infinitely great, the smallest condensation before the body would be instantly diffused through the whole air, and so would the rarefaction, so that no pressure of unbalanced elasticity would be observed ; but the elasticity is such as to propagate the condensation with the velocity of sound only, i. e. the velocity ol 1142 feet per second. ThereSore the additional resistance does not commence precisely at this velocity, but is sensible in all smaller velocities, as is very justly observed by Euler. But we are not yet able to ascertain the law of its increase, although it is a problem which seems susceptible of a tolerably accurate solution.
Precisely similar to this is the resistance to the motion of floating bodies, arising from the accumulation or gorging up of the water on their anterior surface, and its depression behind them. Were the gravity of the water infinite while its inertia remains the same, the wave raised up at the prow of a ship would be instantly diffused over the whole ocean, and it would therefore be infinitely small, as also the depression behind the poop. But this wave requires time for its diffusion ; and while it is not diffused it acts by hydrostatic pressure. We are equally unable to ascertain the law of variation of this part of the resistance, the mechanism of waves being but very imperfectly understood. The height of the wave in the experiments of the French aca∙
demy could not be measured with sufficient precision (being only observed
en passant)
for ascertaining its relation to the velocity. Du Buat attempted it in his experiments, but without success. This must evidently make a part of thc resistance in all velocities: and it still remains an undecided question, “ What relation it bears to the velocities ?” When the solid body is wholly buried in the fluid this accumulation does not take place, or at least not in the same way ; it may, however, be observed. Every person may recollect, that in a very swift running stream a large stone at the bottom will produce a small swell above it ; unless it lies very deep, a nice eye may still observe it. The water, on arriving at the obstacle, glides past it in every direction, and is deflected on all sides ; and therefore what passes over it is also deflected upwards, and causes the water over it to rise above its level. The nearer that the body is to the surface, the greater will be the perpendlcular rise of the water, but it will be less diffused ; and it is uncertain whether the
whole
elevation will be greater or less. By the whole elevation we mean the area of a perpendicular section of the elevation by a plane perpendicular to the direction of the stream. We are rather disposed to think that this area will be greatest when the body is near the surface. D’Ulloa has attempted to consider this subject theoretically, and is of a very different opinion, which he confirms by the single experiment to be mentioned by and by. Meantime it is evident, that if the water which glides past the body cannot fall in behind it with sufficient velocity to fill up the space behind, there must be a void there ; and thus a hydrostatic pressure must be Superadded to the resistance arising from the inertia of the water. All must have observed, that if the end of a stick held in the hand be drawn slowly through the water, the water will fill the place left by the stick, and there will be no curled wave ; but if the motion be very rapid, a hollow trough or gutter is left behind, and is not filled up till at some distance from the stick, and the wave which forms its sides is very much broken and curled. The writer of this article has often looked into the water from the poop of a second-rate man-of-war when she was sailing eleven miles per hour, which is a velocity of sixteen feet per second nearly ; and he not only observed that the back of the rudder was naked for about two feet below the load water-line, but also that the trough or wake made by the ship was filled up with water which was broken and foaming to a considerable depth, and to a considerable distance from the vessel ; there must therefore have been a void. He never saw the wake perfectly transparent (and therefore completely filled with water) when the velocity exceeded nine or ten feet per second. While this broken water is observed, there can be no doubt that there is a void and an additional resistance. But even when the space left by tlle body, or the space behind a still body exposed to a stream, is completely filled, it may not be filled sufficiently fast, and there may be (and certainly is, as we shall afterwards see) a quantity of water behind the body, which is moving more slowly away than the rest, and therefore hangs in some shape by the body, and is dragged by it, increasing the resistance. The quantity of this must depend partly on the velocity of the body or stream, and partly on the rapidity with which the surrounding water comes in behind. This last must depend on the pressure of the surrounding water. It would appear that when this adjoining pressure is very great, as must happen when the depth is great, the augmentation of resistance now spoken of would be less. Accordingly this appears in Newton’s experiments, where the balls were less retarded as they were deeper under water.
These experiments are so simple in their nature, and were made with such care, and by a person so able to detect and appreciate every circumstance, that they deserve great credit, and the conclusions
legitimately
drawn from them deserve to be considered as physical laws. We think that the present deduction is unexceptionable ; for in the motion of balls which hardly descended, their preponde-rancy being hardly sensible, the effect of depth must have bome a very great proportion to the whole resistanoe, and must have greatly influenced their motions ; yet they were observed to fall as if tile resistance had in no way depended on the depth.
The same thing appears in Borda’s experiments, where a sphere which was deeply immersed in the water was less resisted than one that moved with the same velocity near the surface ; and this was very constant and regular in a course of experiments. D’Ulloa, however, affirms the contrary ; he says that the resistance of a board, which was a foot broad, immersed one foot in a stream moving two feet per second, was 15½ lbs. and the resistance to the same board, when immersed two feet in a stream moving 14 foot per second (in which case the surface was two feet), was 26¼ pounds.@@1
We have been more minute on this subject, because it is the leading proposition in the theory of the action of fluids. Newton’s demonstration of it takes no notice of the manner in which the various particles of the fluid are put in motion, or the motion which cach in particular acquires. He only shows, that if there be nothing concerned in the communication but pure inertia, the sum total of the motions of the particles, estimated in the direction of the motion of the body, or that of the stream, will be in the duplicate ratio of the velocity. It was therefore of importance to show that this part of the theory was just.
2.    It appears from a comparison of all the experiments, that the impulses and resistances are very nearly in the proportion of the surfaces. They appear, however, to increase somewhat faster than the surfaces. Borda found that the resistance, with the same velocity, to a surface
of
9 inches 4    (    9 )    Z    9
16    l    J    
17,535 (    .    .    ,    r     J 16
36    
f was <    
42,750 f    ,nstead    of     5 36
81    )    (    104,737
J    
(    81
The deviation in these experiments from the theory increases with the surface, and is probably much greater in thc extensive surfaces of the sails of ships and wind-mills, and the hulls of ships.
3.    The resistances by no means vary in the duplicate ratio of the sines of the angles of incidence.
As this is a circumstance of great importance, inasmuch as the whole theory of the construction and working of ships, and the action of water on our most important machines, depends upon it, it merits a very particular consideration. We cannot do a greater service than by rendering more generally known the excellent experiments of the French academy.
Fifteen boxes or vessels were constructed, w hich were two feet wide, two feet deep, and four feet long. One of them was a parallelopiped of these dimensions ; the others had prows of a wedge form, the angle of the wedge varying by 12° from 12° to 180°; so that the angle of incidence increased by 6° from one box to another. These boxes were dragged across a very large basin of smooth water, in which they were immersed two feet, by means of a line passing over a wheel connected with a cylinder, from which the moving weight was suspended. The motion soon became perfectly uniform ; and the time of passing over ninety-
@@@1 There is something very unaccountable in these experiments. The resistances are much greater than any other author has observed.
six French feet with this uniform motion was very carefully noted. The resistance was measured by the lveight employed, after deducting a certain quantity (properly estimated) for friction, and for the accumulation of the water against the anterior surface. The results of the numerous experiments are given in the following table ; where column I. contains the angle of the prow, column II. contains the resistance as given by the preceding theory, column III. contains the resistance exhibited in the experiments, and column IV. contains the deviation of the experiment from the theory.
The resistance to one square foot, French measure, moving with the velocity of 2∙56 feet per second, was very nearly 7∙625 pounds French.
Reducing these to English measures, we have the surface = 1∙1360 feet, the velocity of the motion equal to 2∙7284 feet per second, and the resistance equal to 8∙234 pounds avoirdupois. The weight of a column of fresh water of this base, and having for its height the fall necessary for communicating this velocity, is 8∙264 pounds avoirdupois. The resistances to other velocities were accurately proportional to the squares of the velocities.
There is great diversity in the value which different authors have deduced for the absolute resistance of water from their experiments. In the value now given nothing is taken into account but the inertia of the water. The accumulation against the fore-part of the box was carefully noted, and the statical pressure backwards, arising from this cause, was subtracted from the whole resistance to the drag. There had not been a sufficient variety of experiments for discovering the share which tenacity and friction produced ; so that the number of pounds set down here may be considered as somewhat superior to the mere effects of the inertia of the water. We think, upon the whole, that it is the most accurate determination yet given of thc resistance to a body in motion ; but we shall afterwards see reason for believing that the impulse of a running stream having the same velocity is somewhat greater ; and this is the form in which most of the experiments have been made.
It is to be observed, also, that the resistance here given is that to a vessel two feet broad and deep, and four feet long. The resistance to a plane two feet broad and deep would probably have exceeded this in the proportion of 15∙22 to 14∙54, for reasons which we shall see afterwards.
From the experiments of Du Buat, it appears that a body of one foot square, French measure, and two feet long, having its centre fifteen inches under water, moving three French feet per second, sustained a pressure of 14∙54 French pounds, or 15∙63 English. This, reduced in the proportion of 3’ to (2∙56)2 , gives 11∙43 pounds, considerably exceeding the 8∙234 mentioned above.
Bouguer, in his
Manœuvre des Vaisseaux,
says that he found the resistance of sea-water to a velocity of one foot to be twenty-thrce ounces
poids des marc.
Borda found the resistance of sea-water to the face of a cubic foot, moving against the water one foot per second, to be twenty-one ounces nearly. But in this experiment the wave was not deducted.
Don George d’Ulloa found the impulse of a stream ot sea-water, running two feet per second, on a foot square, to be 15¼ English pounds. This greatly exceeds all the values given by others.
From these experiments we learn, in the first place, that the direct resistance to the motion of a plane surface through water, is very nearly equal to the weight of a column of water having that surface for its base, and for its height the fall producing the velocity of the motion. This is but one half of the resistance determined by the preceding theory. It agrees, however, very well with the best experiments made by Otherphilosopherson bodies totally immersed or surrounded by the fluid; and sufficiently shows that there must be some fallacy in the principles or reasoning by which this result of the theory is supposed to be deduced.
But we see that the effects of the obliquity of incidence deviate enormously from the theory, and that this deviation increases rapidly as the acuteness of the prow increases. In the prow of 60° the deviation is nearly equal to the whole resistance pointed out by the theory, and in the prow of 12° it is nearly forty times greater than the theoretical resistance.
The resistance of the prow of 90° should be one half the resistance of the base. We have not such a prow ; but the medium between the resistance of the prow of 96 and 84 is 5790 instead of 5000.
These experiments agree with those of other authors on plane surfaces. Mr Robins found that the resistance of the air to a pyramid of 45°, with its apex foremost, was to that of its base as 1000 to 1411, instead of one to two. Borda found that the resistance of a cube, moving in water in the direction of the side, was to the oblique resistance, when it was moved in the direction of the diagonal, in the proportion of 5¼ to 7 ; whereas it should have been that of ⅛Z2 to 1, or of 10 to 7 nearly. He also found that a wedge whose angle was 90°, moving in air, gave for the proportion of the resistances of the edge and base 7281 : 10,000, instead of 5000 : 10,000. Also, when the angle of the wedge was 60°, the resistances of the edge and base were 52 and 100, instead of 25 and 100.
In short, in all the cases of oblique plane surfaces, the resistances are greater than those which were assigned by the theory. The theoretical law agrees tolerably with observation in large angles of incidence, that is, in incidences not differing very far from the perpendicular; but in more acute prows the resistances are more nearly proportional to the sines of incidence than to their squares.
The French academicians deduced from these experiments an expression of the general value of the resistance, which corresponds tolerably well with observation. Thus let
x
be the complement of the half angle of the prow, and let P be the direct pressure or resistance, with an incidence of 90°, and
p
the effective oblique pressure : then
f X
q
∖
^’25
p =
P × cosine’
x
+ 3T53 ( — 1    . This gives for a prow
of 12° an error in defect equal to about -r J σ , and in larger angles it is much nearer the truth ; and this is exact enough for any practice.
This is an abundantly simple formula ; but if we introduce it in our calculations of the resistances Ofcurvilineal prows, it renders them so complicated as to be almost useless ; and what is worse, when the calculation is completed for a curvilineal prow, the resistance which results is found to differ widely from experiment. This shows that the motion of the fluid is so modified by the action of die most prominent part of the prow, that its impulse on what succeeds is greatly affected, so that we are not allowed to
consider the prow as composed of
a
number of parts, each of which is affected as if it were detached from all the rest.
As the very nature of naval architecture seems to require curvilineal forms in order to give the necessary strength, it seemed of importance to examine more particularly the deviations of the resistances of such prows from the resistances assigned by the theory. The academicians therefore made vessels with prows of a cylindrical shape ; one of these was a half cylinder, and the other was one third of a cylinder, both having the same breadth, viz. two feet, the same depth, also two feet, and the same length, four feet. The resistance of the half cylinder was to the resistance of the perpendicular prow in the proportion of 13 to 25, instead of being as 13 to 19∙5. Borda found nearly the same ratio of the resistances of the half cylinder, and the plane of its diameter when moved in air. He also compared the resistances of two prisms or wedges of the same breadth and height. The first had its sides plane, inclined to the base in angles of 60° : the second had its sides portions of cylinders, of which the planes were the chords, that is, their sections were arcs of circles of 60°. Their resistances were as 133 to 100, instead of being as 133 to 220, as required by the theory ; and as the resistance of the first was greater in proportion to that of the base than the theory allows, the resistance of the last was less.
Mr Robins found the resistance of a sphere moving in air to be to the resistance of its great circle as 1 to 2∙27, whereas theory requires them to be as 1 to 2. He found, at the same time, that the absolute resistance was greater than the weight of a cylinder of air of the same diameter, and having the height necessary for acquiring the velocity. It was greater in the proportion of 49 to 40 nearly.
Borda found the resistance of the sphere moving in water to be to that of its great circle as 1000 to 2508, and it was one ninth greater than the weight of the column of water whose height was that necessary for producing the velocity. He also found that the resistance of air to the sphere was to its resistance to its great circle as 1 to 2∙45.
It appears, therefore, on the whole, that the theory gives the resistance of oblique plane surfaces too small, and that of curved surfaces too great ; and that it is quite unfit for ascertaining the modifications of resistance arising from the figure of the body. The most prominent part of the prow changes the action of the fluid on the succeeding parts, rendering it totally different from what it would be were that part detached from the rest, and exposed to the stream with the same obliquity.. It is of no consequence, therefore, to deduce any formula from the valuable experiments of the French academy. The experiments themselves are of great importance, because they give us the impulses on plane surfaces with every obliquity. They therefore put it in our power to select the most proper obliquity in a thousand important cases. By appealing to them, we can tell what is thc proper angle of the sail for producing the greatest impulse in the direction of the ship’s course ; or the best inclination of the sail of a windmill, or the best inclination of the float of a water-wheel, &c. &c. We see also, that the deviation from the simple theory is not very considerable till the obliquity is great ; and that, in the inclinations which other circumstances would induce us to give to the floats of water-wheels, the sails of windmills, and the like, the results of the theory are sufficiently in accordance with experiment, for rendering this theory of very great use in the construction of machines. Its great defect is in the impulsions on curved surfaces, which puts a stop to our improvement of the science of naval architecture, and the working of ships.
Having thus pointed out the defects of the Newtonian theory by a comparison with experiment, we now proceed
to consider the circumstances which cause the great discrepancy. It has already been stated that Newton, in order to explain the phenomena of oblique impulse, assumed the distances between the particles of his hypothetical fluid to be infinitely great in comparison of their diameters, so that each particle might have room to escape, after making its stroke, without affecting the motions of the other particles, and consequently, that the actions of the particles might be regarded as so many separate collisions. But this assumption does not represent the real state of the case. The rare fluid introduced by Newton for the purpose now mentioned, either does not exist in nature, or does not act in the manner we have stated, namely, the particles making their impulse, and then escaping through among the rest w'ithout affecting their motion. Wecannotindeed say what may be the proportion between the diameter and the distance of the particles. The first may be incomparably smaller than the second, even in mercury, the densest fluid which we are familiarly acquainted with ; but although they do not touch each other, they act nearly as if they did, in consequence of their mutual attractions and repulsions. We have seen air a thousand times rarer in some experiments than in others, and therefore the distance of the particles at least ten times greater than their diameters ; and yet, in this rare state, it propagates all pressures or impulses made on any part of it to a great distance, almost in an instant. It cannot be, therefore, that fluids act on bodies by impulse. It is very possible to conceive a fluid advancing with a flat surface against the flat surface of a solid. The very first and superficial particles may make an impulse ; and if they were annihilated, the next might do the same ; and if the velocity were double, these impulses would be double, and would be withstood by a double force, and not a quadruple, as is observed ; and this very circumstance that a quadruple force is necessary, should have made us conclude that it was not to impulse that this force was opposed. The first particles having made thcir stroke, and not being annihilated, must escape laterally. In their escaping they effectually prevent every farther impulse, because they come in the way of those filaments which would have struck the body. The whole process seems to be somewhat as follows :
WTien the particles of the fluid come into contact with the plane surface AB (fig. 6), perpendicular to the direction DC of their motion, they must deflect to both sides equally, and in equal portions, because no reason can be assigned why more should go to either side. By this means the filament EF, which would have struck the surface in G, is deflected
before it arrives at
the surface, and describes a curved path EFIHK, continuing its rectilineal motion to I, where it is intercepted by a filament immediately adjoining to EF, on the side of the middle filament DC. The different particles of DC may be supposed to impinge in succession at C, and to be deflected at right angles ; and, gliding along CB, to escape at B. Each filament in succession, outwards from DC, is deflected in its turn ; and being hindered from even touching the surface CB, it glides off in a direction parallel to it ; and thus EF is deflected in I, moves parallel to CB from I to H, and is again deflected at right angles, and describes HK parallel to DC. The same thing may be supposed to happen on the other side of DC. Thus it would appear, that except two filaments immediately adjoining to the line DC, which bisects the surface at right angles, no part of the fluid makes any impulse on the surface AB. All the other filaments are merely pressed against it by the lateral filaments without
them, which they turn aside, and prevent from striking the surface.
In like manner, when the fluid strikes the edge of a prism or wedge ACB (fig. 7), it cannot be said that any real impulse is made. Nothing hinders us from supposing C to be a mathematical angle or indivisible point, not susceptible of any impulse, and serving merely to divide the stream. Each filament EF is effectually prevented from impinging at G in the line of its direction, and with the obliquity of incidence EGC, by the filaments between EF and DC, which glide along the surface CA ; and it may be supposed to be deflected when it comes to the line CF which bisects the angle DCA, and again deflected and rendered parallel to DC at I. The same thing happens on the other side of DC ; and we cannot in that case assert that there is any impulse.
We now see plainly how the ordinary theory must be totally unfit for furnishing principles of naval architecture, even although a formula could be deduced from such a series Ofexperiments as those of the French academy. Although we should know precisely the impulse, or, to speak now more cautiously, the action, of the fluid on a surface GL (fig. 8) of any obliquity,
when it is alone, detached
from all others, we cannot in
the smallest degree tell what
will be the action of
part
of a
stream or fluid advancing to
wards it with the same obli
quity, when it is preceded by
an adjoining surface CG, hav
ing a different inclination ; for
the fluid will not glide along GL in the same manner as if it made part of a more extensive surface having the same inclination. The previous deflections are extremely different in these two cases ; and the previous deflections are the only changes which we can observe in the motions of the fluid, and the only causes of that pressure which we observe the body to sustain, and which we call the impulse on it. This theory must, therefore, be quite unfit for ascertaining the action on a curved surface, which may be considered as made up of an indefinite number of successive planes.
We now see with equal evidence how it happens that the action of fluids on solid bodies may and must be opposed by pressures, and may be compared with and measured by the pressure of gravity. We are not comparing forces of different kinds, percussions with pressures, but pressures with each other. Let us see whether this view’ of the subject will afford us any method of comparison or absolute measurement.
When a filament of fluid, that is, a row of corpuscles, are turned out of their course, and forced to take another course, force is required to produce this change of direction. The filament is prevented from proceeding, by other filaments which lie between it and the body, and which deflect it in the same manner as if it were contained in a bended tube, and it will press on the concave filament next to it as it would press on the concave side of the tube. Suppose such
a bended tube ABE (fig. 9), and that a ball A is projected along it with any velocity, and moves in it without friction ; it '«'demonstrated, in elementary mechanics, that the ball will move with undiminished velocity, and will press on every
point, such as B, of the concave side of the tube, in a direction BF perpendicular to the plane CBD, which touches the tube in the point B. This pressure on the adjoining filament, on the concave side of its path, must be withstood by that filament which deflects it ; and it must be propagated across that filament to the next, and thus augment the pressure upon that next filament already pressed by the deflection of the intermediate filament ; and thus there is a pressure towards the middle filament, and towards the body, arising from the deflection of all the outer filaments ; and their accumulated sum must be conceived as immediately exerted on the middle filaments and on the body, because a perfect fluid transmits every pressure undiminished.
The pressure BF is equivalent to the two BH, BG, one of which is perpendicular, and the other parallel, to the direction of the original motion. By the first (taken in any point of the curvilineal motion of any filament), the two halves of the stream are pressed together, and, in the case of fig. 6 and 7, exactly balance each other. But the pressures, such as BG, must be ultimately withstood by the surface ACB ; and it is by these accumulated pressures that the solid body is urged down the stream, and it is these accumulated pressures which we observe and measure in our experiments. We shall anticipate a little, and say that it is most easily demonstrated, that when a ball A (fig. 9) moves with undiminished velocity in a tube so incurvat-ed that its axis at E is at right angles to its axis at A, the accumulated action of the pressures, such as BG, taken for every point of the path, is precisely equal to the force which .would produce or extinguish the original motion.
This being the case, it follows most obviously, that if the two motions of the filaments are such as we have described and represented by fig. 6, the whole pressure in the direction of the stream, that is, the whole pressure which can be observed on the surface, is equal to tlle weight of a column of fluid having the surface for its base, and twice the fall productive of the velocity for its height, precisely as Newton deduced it from other considerations ; and it seems to make no difference whether the fluid be elastic or unelastic, if the deflections and velocities are the same. Now it is a fact, that no difference in this respect can be observed in the actions of air and water ; and this had always appeared a great defect in Newton's theory ; but it was only a defect of the theory attributed to him. But it is also true, that the observed action is but one half of what is just now deduced from this improved view of the subject. Whence arises this difference ? The reason is this : We have given a very erroneous account of the motions of the filaments. A filament EF does not rηpve, as represented in fig. 6, with two rectangular inflections at I and at H, and a path IH between them parallel to CB. The process of nature is more like what is re
presented in fig. 10.
Jt is observed,
that at
the anterior part of
the body AB, there
remains a quantity of
fluid ADB, almost, if
not altogether, stag
nant, of a singular
shape, having two cur
ved concave sides A
a
D, B
b
D, along which the middle filaments glide. This fluid is very slowly changed. The late Sir Charles Knowles, a distinguished officer of the British navy, made many beautiful experiments for ascertaining the paths of the filaments of water. At a distance up the stream, he allowed small jets of a coloured fluid, which did not mix with water, to make part of the stream ; and the experiments were made in troughs with sides and bottom of plate-glass. A small taper was placed at a considerable height above, by which the shadows of the colour-
ed filaments were most distinctly projected on a white plane held below the trough, so that they were accurately drawn with a pencil. A few important particulars may be here mentioned.
The still water ADC, fig. 10, lasted for a long while before it was renewed ; and it seemed to be gradually wasted by abrasion, by the adhesion of the surrounding water, which gradually licked away the outer parts from D to A and B ; and it seemed to renew itself in the direction CD, opposite to the motion of the stream. There was, however, a considerable intricacy and eddy in this motion. Some (seemingly superficial) water was continually, butslowly, flowing outward from the line DC, while other water was seen within and below it, coming inwards and going backwards.
The coloured lateral filaments were most constant in their form, while the body was the same, although the velocity was in some cases quadrupled. Any change which this produced seemed confined to the superficial filaments.
As the filaments were deflected, they were also constipated, that is, the curved parts of the filaments were nearer each other than the parallel straight filaments up the stream ; and this constipation was more considerable as the prow was more obtuse and the deflexion greater.
The inner filaments were ultimately more deflected than those without them ; that is, if a line be drawn touching the curve EFIH in the point H of contrary flexure, where the concavity begins to be on the side next the body, the angle HKC, contained between the axis and the tangent line, is so much the greater as the filament is nearer the axis.
When the body exposed to the stream was a box of upright sides, flat bottom, and angular prow, like a wedge, having its edge also upright, the filaments were not all deflected laterally, as theory would make us expect ; but the filaments near tlle bottom were also deflected downwards as well as laterally, and glided along at some distance under the bottom, forming lines of double curvature.
The breadth of the stream that was deflected was much greater than that of the body ; and the sensible deflection began at a considerable distance up the stream, especially in the outer filaments.
Lastly, the form of the curves was greatly influenced by the proportion between the width of the trough and that of the body. The curvature was always less when the trough was very wide in proportion to the body.
Great varieties were also observed in the motion or velocity of the filaments. In general, the filaments increased in velocity outwards from the body to a certain small distance, which was nearly the same in all cases, and then diminished all the way outward. This was observed by inequalities in the colour of the filaments, by which one could be observed to outstrip another. The retardation of those next the body seemed to proceed from friction ; and it was imagined that without this the velocity there would always have been greatest.
These observations give us considerable information respecting the mechanism of these motions, and the action of fluids upon solids. The pressure in the duplicate ratio of the velocities comes here again into view. We found, that although the velocities were very different, the curves were precisely the same. Now the observed pressures arise from the transverse forces by which each particle of a filament is retained in its curvilineal path ; and we know that the force by which a body is retained in any curve is directly as the st)uare of the velocity, and inversely as the radius of curvature. The curvature, therefore, remaining the same, the transverse forces, and consequently the pressure on the body, must be as the square of the velocity ; and, on the other hand, we can see pretty clearly (indeed it is rigorously demonstrated by D’Alembert), that whatever be the velocities, the curves will be the same. For it is known in hydraulics, that it requires a fourfold or ninefold pressure to produce a double or triple velocity. And as all pressures are propagated through a perfect fluid without diminution, this fourfold pressure, while it produces a double velocity, produces also fourfold transverse pressures, which will retain the particles, moving twice as fast, in the same curvilineal paths. And thus we see that the impulses, as thev are called, and resistances of fluids, have a certain relation to the weight of a column of fluid whose height is the height necessary for producing the velocity. How it happens that a plane surface, immersed in an extended fluid, sustains just half the pressure which it would have sustained had the motions been such as are represented in fig. 6, is a matter of more curious and difficult investigation. But we see evidently that the pressure must be less than what is there assigned ; for the stagnant water a-head of the body greatly diminishes the ultimate deflections of the filaments ; and it may be demonstrated, that when the part BE of the canal, fig. 9, is inclined to the part AB in an angle less than 90°, the pressures BG along the whole canal are as the versed sine of the ultimate angle of deflection, or the versed sine of the angle which the part BE makes with the part AB. Therefore, since the deflections resemble more the sketch given in fig. 10, the accumulated sum of all these forces BG of fig. 9 must be less than the similar sum corresponding to fig. 6, that is, less than the weight of the column of fluid having twice the productive height for its height. How it is just one half, shall be our next inquiry.
And here we must return to the labours of Sir Isaac Newton. After many beautiful observations on the nature and mechanism of continued fluids, he says, that the resistance which they occasion is but one half of that occasioned by the rare fluid which had been the subject of his former proposition. He then enters into another, as novel and as difficult an investigation, viz. the laws of hydraulics, and endeavours to ascertain the motion of fluids through orifices when urged by pressures of any kind. He endeavours to ascertain the velocity with w hich a fluid escapes through a horizontal orifice in the bottom of a vessel, by the action of its weight, and the pressure which this vein of fluid will exert on a little circle which occupies part of the orifice. To obtain this, he employs a kind of approximation and trial, of which it would be extremely difficult to give an extract ; and then, by increasing the diameter of the vessel and of the hole to infinity, he accommodates his reasoning to the case of a plane surface exposed to an indefinitely extended stream of fluid ; and, lastly, giving to the little circular surface the motion which he had before ascribed to the fluid, he says, that the resistance to a plane surface moving through an unelastic continuous fluid, is equal to the weight of a column of the fluid whose height is one half of that necessary for acquiring the velocity ; and he says, that the resistance of a globe is, in this case, the same with that of a cylinder of the same diameter. The resistance, therefore, of the cylinder or circle is four times less, and that of the globe is twice less, than their resistances on a rare elastic medium.
But this determination, though founded on principles or assumptions which are much nearer to the real state of things, is liable to great objections. It depends on his method for ascertaining the velocity of the issuing fluid; a method extremely ingenious, but defective. The cataract which he supposes, cannot exist as he supposes, descending by the full action of gravity, and surrounded by a funnel of stagnant fluid. For, in such circumstances, there is nothing to balance the hydrostatical pressure of this surrounding fluid ; because the whole pressure of the central cataract is employed in producing its own descent- In the next place, the pressure which he determines is beyond all doubt only half of what is observed on a plane surface in all our experiments. And, in the-third place it is repugnant to all our
experience, that the resistance of a globe or of a pointed body is as great as that of its circular base. He supposes the two bodies placed in a tube or canal ; and since they are supposed of the same diameter, and therefore leave equal spaces at their sides, he concludes, that because the water escapes by their sides with the same velocity, they will have the same resistance. But this is by no means a necessary consequence. Even if the water should be allowed to exert equal pressures on them, the pressures being perpendicular to their surfaces, and these surfaces being inclined to the axis, while in the case of the base of a cylinder it is in the direction of the axis, there must be a difference in the accumulated or compound pressure in the direction of the axis. He indeed says, that in the case of the cylinder or the circle obstructing the canal, a quantity of water remains stagnant on its upper surface, viz. all the water whose motion would not contribute to the most ready passage of the fluid between the cylinder and the sides of the canal or tube ; and that this water may be considered as frozen. If this be the case, it is indifferent what is the form of the body that is covered with this mass of frozen or stagnant water. It may be a hemisphere or a cone ; the resistance will be the same. But Newton by no means assigns, elther with precision or with distinct evidence, the form and magnitude of this stagnant water, so as to give confidence in the results. He contents himself with saying, that it is that water whose motion is not necessary, or cannot contribute to the most easy passage of the water. There remains, therefore, many imperfections in this theory.
In the second volume of the
Comment. Petropol.
1727, Daniel Bernoulli proposes a formula for the resistance of fluids, deduced from considerations quite different from those on which Newton founded his solution. But he delivers it with diffidence, because he found that it gave a resistance four times greater than experiment. In the same dissertation he determines the resistance of a sphere to be one half of that of its great circle. But in his subsequent theory of Hydrodynamics (a work which must ever rank among the first productions of the age, being equally remarkable for refined and elegant mathematics, and ingenious and original thoughts in dynamics), he calls this determination in question. It is indeed founded on the same hypothetical principles which have been unskilfully detached from the rest of Newton’s physics, and made the groundwork of all the subsequent theories on this subject.
In 1741, Daniel Bernoulli published another dissertation (in the eighth volume of the
Com. Petrop
∣
d.)
on the action and resistance of fluids, limited to a very particular case ; namely, to tlle impulse of a vein of fluid falling perpendicularly on an infinitely extended plane surface. This he demonstrates to be equal to the weight of a column of the fluid whose base is the area of the vein, and whose height is twice the fall producing the velocity. This demonstration is drawn from the true principles of mechanics and the acknowledged laws of hydraulics, and may be received as a strict physical demonstration. As it is the only proposition in the whole theory that has as yet received a demonstration accessible to readers not versant in all the refinements of modern analysis, and as the principles on which it proceeds will undoubtedly lead to a solution of every problem which can be proposed, when our mathematical knowledge shall enable us to apply them, we think it our duty to give the demonstration in this place, although we must acknowledge that it will hardly bear an application to any case in which the conditions are even slightly varied. There do occur cases however in practice, where it may be applied to very great advantage.
Bernoulli first determines the whole action exerted in the efflux of the vein of fluid. Suppose the velocity of efflux
v
is that which would be acquired by falling through the height
h.
It is well known that a body moving during
the time of this fall with the velocity
v
would describe a space = 2Λ. The effect, therefore, of the hydraulic action is, that in the time
t
of the fall A, there issues a cylinder or prism of water whose base is the cross section s or area of the vein, and whose length is 2Λ. And this quantity of matter is now moving with the velocity
v.
The quantity of motion, therefore, which is thus produced in the time <, is
2shv.
And this is the accumulated effect of all the expelling forces estimated in the direction of the efflux. Now, to compare this with the exertion of some pressure with which we are familiarly acquainted, let us suppose this pillar 2sA to be frozen, and, being held in the hand, to be dropped. It is well known, that in the time
t
it will fall through the height A, and will acquire the velocity
v,
and now possesses the quantity of motion
2shv ;
and all this is the effect of its weight. The weight, therefore, of the pillar 2iA produces the same effect, and in the same time, and (as may easily be seen) in the same gradual manner, with the expelling forces of the fluid in the vessel, which expelling forces arise from the pressure of all the fluid in the vessel. Therefore the accumulated hydraulic pressure by which a vein of a heavy fluid is forced out through an orifice in the bottom or side bf a vessel, is equal (when estimated in the direction of the efflux) to the weight of a column of the fluid having for its base the section of the vein, and twice the fall productive of the velocity of efflux for its height.
Now let ABDC be a quadrangular vessel with upright plane sides, in one of which is an orifice EF. From every point of the circumference of this orifice,
Suppose horizontal lines Ee, F/j &c. which will mark a similar surface on the opposite side oft he vessel. Suppose the orifice EF to be shut. There can be no doubt but that the surfaces EF and
ef
will be equally pressed in opposite directions. Now open the orifice EF ; the water will rush out, and the pressure on EF is nowremoved. There will therefore be a tendency in the vessel to move back in the direction Ee. And this tendency must be precisely equal and opposite to the whole effort of the expelling forces. This is a conclusion as evident as any proposition in mechanics. It is thus that a gun recoils and a rocket rises in the air ; and on this is founded the operation of Barker’s mill, described in all treatises of mechanics.
Now let this stream of water be received on a circular plane MN, perpendicular to its axis, and let this circular plane be of such extent that the vein escapes from its sides in an infinitely thin sheet, the water flowing off in a direction parallel to the plane. The vein by this means will expand into a trumpet-shaped figure, or conoid, having curved sides, EKG, FLH. We abstract at present the action of gravity which would cause the vein to bend downwards, and occasion a greater velocity kt H than at G ; and we suppose the velocity equal in every point of the circumference. It is plain that if the action of gravity be neglected after the water has issued through the orifice EF, the velocity in every point of the circumference of the plane MN will be that of the efflux through EF.
Now, because EKG is the figure assumed by tlle vein, it is plain that if the whole vein were covered by a tube or funnel, fitted to its shape, and perfectly polished, so that the water shall glide along it without any friction (a thing which we may always suppose), the water will exert no pressure whatever on this tube. Lastly, let us suppose that the plane MN is attached to the tube by some bits of wire, so as to allow the water to escape all round by the narrow chink between the tube and the plane. We have now a vessel consisting of the upright part ABDC, the conoid GKEFLH, and the plane MN ; and the water is escaping
from every point of the circumference of the chink GHNM with the velocity
v.
If any part of this chink were shut up, there would be a pressure on that part equivalent to the force of efflux from the opposite part. Therefore, when all is open, these efforts of efflux balance each other all round. There is not therefore any tendency in this compound vessel to move to any side. But take away the plane MN, and there would immediately arise a pressure in the direction Ee equal to the weight of the column
2sh.
This is therefore balanced by the pressure on the circular plane MN, which is therefore equal to this weight, and tlle proposition is demonstrated.
A number of experiments were made by Professor Kraffl at St Petersburg, by receiving the vein on a plane which was fastened to the arm of a balance, having a scale hanging on the opposite arm. The resistance or pressure on the plane was measured by weights put into the scale ; and the velocity of the jet was measured by means of the distance to which it spouted on a horizontal plane.
The results of these experiments were as conformable to the theory as could be wished. The resistance was always a little less than what the formula required, but greatly exceeded its half; the result of tlle generally received theories. This defect should be expected ; for the demonstration supposes the plane MN to be infinitely extended, so that the film of water which issues through the chink may be accurately parallel to the plane, which never can be completely effected. Also it was supposed that the velocity was justly measured by the amplitude of the parabola described when the plane was removed. But it is well known that the very putting the plane MN in the way of the jet, though at the distance of an inch from the orifice, will diminish the velocity of the efflux through this orifice.
Bernoulli hoped to render this proposition more extensive and applicable to oblique impulses, when the axis AC of the vein (fig. 12) is inclined to the
plane in an angle ACN. But here
all the simplicity of the case is gone,
and we are now obliged to ascertain
the motion of each filament. It might
not perhaps be impossible to deter
mine what must happen in the plane
of the figure, that is, in a plane pass
ing through the axis of the vein, and pe-pendicular to the plane MN. But even in this case it would be extremely difficult to determine how much of the fluid will go in the direction EKG, and what will go in the path FLH, and to ascertain the form of each filament, and the velocity in its different points. In the real state of the case, the water will dissipate from the centre C on every side ; and we cannot tell in what proportions. Let us, however, consider a little what happens in the plane of the figure, and suppose that all the water goes either in the course EKG or in the course FLH. Let the quantities of water which take these two courses have the proportions of
m
to
n,
and let 
m + n
= 1. Let
h
= the velocity at A,
v
= the velocity at G, and
u —
the velocity at H ; and let
φ
= the supplement of the angle ACM. Now, since
m + n
= 1, and since the quantity of fluid which passes through A in a given time is proportional to the velocity, the momentum or quantity of motion at A in the direction AC is wιΛ2 , and the quantity of motion at G in the same direction is
tιwt
cos.
φ,
so that 
m (fli —
t>∙ cos.
φ)
is the quantity of motion destroyed by the plane CM, which is obviously equal to the resistance of that plane, or equal to the pressure of the sheet of fluid GKEACM. In the same manner it is shown that the quantity of motion destroyed by the plane CN, or the pressure of the sheet of fluid HLFACN, is
n (h2 + u2
cos.
φ)
(remembering that in this case cos. p is negative) ; therefore the sum of these two pressures, or the whole pressure on the plane MN, in the direction AC, is
m (h1 — v,
cos. ρ) 
+ n
(A* + m
2
cos.
tf),
which being multiplied by the sine of ACM, or sin.
φ,
gives the pressure perpendicular to MN equal to {∕n(A2 —
vt cos. f) + n
(A2 + κ2 cos.ρ)}sin.p.@@1
But there remains a pressure in the direction perpendicular to the axis of the vein, which is not balanced, as in the former case, by the equality on opposite sides of the axis. The pressure arising from the water which escapes at G has an effect opposite to that produced by the water which escapes at H. When this is taken into account, we shall find that their joint efforts perpendicular to AC are (>n —
n)h'i
sin.
φ,
which, being multiplied by the cosine of ACM, gives the action perpendicular to the plane MN = 
(m — n) h'i
cos.
φ
sin.
φ.
The sum or joint effort of all these pressures is m(A2
— vi cos. f)
sin.
φ + n (fli — ui
cos.
f)
sin. p + 
(m — n)
A2 cos. p sin. p.
Thus, from this case, which is much simpler than can happen in nature, seeing that there will always be a lateral efflux, the determination of the impulse is as uncertain and vague as it was sure and precise in the former case.
It is therefore without proper authority that the absolute impulse of a vein of fluid on a plane which receives it wholly, is asserted to be proportional to the sine of incidence. If indeed we suppose the velocities in G and H to be equal to that at A, then
h = v= u,
and the whole impulse is
h∙
sin. p, as is commonly supposed. But this cannot be. Both the velocity and quantity at H are less than those at G. Nay, frequently there is no efflux on the side H when the obliquity is very great. We made conclude, in general, that the oblique impulse will always bear to the direct impulse a greater proportion than that of the sine of incidence to radius. If the whole water escapes at G, and none goes off laterally, the pressure will be (A2 + A2 cos. p —
vi cos. p) 
sin. p. The experiments of the Abbé Bossut show’, in the plainest manner, that the pressure of a vein, striking obliquely on a plane which receives it wholly, diminishes faster than in the ratio of the square of the sine of incidence ; whereas, when the oblique plane is wholly immersed in the stream, the impulse is much greater than in this proportion, and in great obliquities is nearly as the sine.
Nor will this proposition determine the impulse of a fluid on a plane wholly immersed in it, even when the impulse is perpendicular to the plane. The circumstance is now wanting on which we can establish a calculation, namely, the angle of final deflection. Could this be ascertained for each filament, and the velocity of the filament, the principles are completely adequate to an accurate solution of the problem. In thc experiments which we mentioned to have been made under the inspection of Sir Charles Knowdes, a cylinder of six inches diameter was exposed to the action of a stream moving precisely one foot per second ; and when certain deductions were made for the water which was held adhering to the posterior base (as will be noticed afterwards), the impulse was found equal to 3½ ounces avoirdupois. There were thirty-six coloured filaments distributed on the stream, in such situations as to give the most useful indications of their curvature. It was found necessary to have some which passed under the body and some above it; for the form of these filaments, at the same distance from the axis of the cylinder, was considerably different ; and those filaments which were situated in planes neither horizontal nor vertical took a double curvature. In short, the curves were all traced with great care, and the deflecting forces were computed for each, and reduced to the
1
@@@ For a general solution of this problem, see the
Traité de Mécanique
of Poisson, tome ii. p. 778.
direction of the axis ; and they were summed up in such a manner as to give the impulse of the whole stream. The deflections were marked as far a-head of the cylinder as they could be observed with certainty. By this method the impulse was computed to be 2¼
⅙
ounces, differing from observation
fe of an
ounce, or about ∙⅛ of the whole ; a difference which may most reasonably be ascribed to the adhesion of the water, which must be most sensible in such small velocities. These experiments may therefore be considered as giving all the confirmation that can be desired of the justness of the principles. This indeed hardly admits of a doubt ; but the method gives us but small assistance, in as far as it leaves us in every case the task of observing the form of the curves and the velocities in their different points. To derive advantage from this method of Daniel Bernoulli, we must discover some means of determining,
a priori,
what will be the motion of the fluid whose course is obstructed by a body of any form. And here we cannot omit taking notice of the casual observations of Sir Isaac Newton when attempting to determine the resistance of the plane surface, or cylinder, or sphere exposed to a stream moving in a canal. He says, that the form of the resisting surface is of less consequence, because there is always a quantity of water stagnant upon it, and which may therefore be considered as frozen ; and he therefore considers that water only whose motion is necessary for the most expeditious discharge of the water in the vessel. We are disposed to think, that in this casual observation Sir Isaac Newton has pointed out the only method of arriving at a solution of the problem ; and that, if we could discover
what motions are not necessary for the most expeditious passage of the water,
and could thus determine tlle form and magnitude of the stagnant water which adheres to the body, we should much more easily ascertain the real motions which occasion the observed resistance.
In the mean time, we may admit this as a physical truth, that the perpendicular impulse or resistance of a plane surface, wholly immersed in the fluid, is equal to the weight of the column having the surface for its base, and the fall producing the velocity for its height.
This is the medium result of all experiments made in these precise circumstances. And it is confirmed by a set of experiments of a kind wholly different, and which seem to point it out more certainly as an immediate consequence of hydraulic principles.
If a tube, open at both ends, and bent into a right angle near one of its extremities, be held in an upright position, and the open mouth of the bent end be exposed directly to a stream of fluid issuing from a reservoir or vessel, the fluid is observed to stand in the upright tube precisely on a level ¼τ ith the fluid in the reservoir. Here is a most unexceptionable experiment, in which the impulse of the stream is actually opposed to the hydrostatical pressure of the fluid in the tube. Pressure is in this case opposed to pressure, because the issuing fluid is deflected by what remains in the mouth of the tube, in the same way in which it would be deflected by a firm surface. We shall have occasion by and by to mention some most valuable and instructive experiments made with this instrument, which is known by the name of Pitot’s tube.
It wt as this which suggested to Euler another theory of the impulse and resistance of fluids, which must not be omitted, as it is applied in his elaborate performance on the Theory of the Construction and Working of Ships. He supposes a stream of fluid, moving with any velocity, to strike the plane BD perpendicularly, and that part of it goes through a hole, forming a jet. Euler says, that the velocity of this jet will be the same with the velocity of the stream. Nowr compare this with an equai stream issuing from a hole in the side of a vessel with the same velocity. The one stream is urged out by the pressure occasioned by the
impulse of the fluid ; the other is urged out by the pressure of gravity. The effects are equal, and the modifying circumstances are the same. The causes are therefore equal, and the pressure occasioned by the impulse of a stream of fluid, moving with any velocity, is equal to the weight of a column of fluid whose height is productive of this velocity, &c. He then determines the oblique impulse by the resolution of motion, and deduces the common rules ofresistance, &c.
But all this is without just grounds. Not a shadow of argument is given for the leading principle in this theory, viz. that the velocity of the jet is the same with the velocity of the stream. None can be given, but saying that the pressure is equivalent to its production ; and this is assuming the very thing he labours to prove. The matter of fact is, that the velocity of the jet is greater than that of the stream, and may be greater almost in any proportion ; which curious circumstance was discovered and ingeniously explained long ago by Daniel Bernoulli in his
Hydrodynarnica.
It is evident that the velocity must be greater. Were a stream of sand to come against the plane, what goes through would indeed preserve its velocity unchanged ; but when a real fluid strikes the plane, all that does not pass through is deflected on all sides ; and by these deflections forces are excited, by which the filaments which surround the cylinder immediately fronting the hole are made to press this cylinder on all sides, and as it were squeeze it between them ; and thus the particles at the hole must of necessity be accelerated, and the velocity of the jet must be greater than that of the stream. Wτ e are disposed to think that, in a fluid perfectly incompressible, the velocity will be double, or at least increased in the proportion of 1 to
s∕2.
If the fluid is in the smallest degree compressible even in the very small degree that water is, the velocity at the first impulse may be much greater. Daniel Bernoulli found that a column of water moving five feet per second, in a tube some hundred feet long, produced a velocity of 136 feet per second in tlle first moment.
There being this radical defect in the theory of Euler, it is needless to take notice of its total insufficiency for explaining oblique impulses and the resistance of curvilineal prows.
D’Alembert has attempted a solution of the problem in a method entirely new and extremely ingenious. Bernoulli had only considered the pressures which were excited in consequence of the curvilineal motions of the particles. D’Alembert thought that these pressures were not the consequences, but the causes, of these curvilineal motions. No internal motion can happen in a fluid but in consequence of an unbalanced pressure ; and every such motion will produce an inequality of pressure, which will determine the succeeding motions. He therefore endeavoured to reduce all to the discovery of those disturbing pressures, and thus to the laws of hydrostatics. Assisted by that general principle of dynamics which he had previously established, and which had enabled him to solve many of the most difficult problems concerning thc motions of bodies, such as the centre of oscillation, of spontaneous conversion, the precession of the equinoxes, &c. &c. with great facility and elegance, he demonstrates, in a manner equally new and simple, those propositions which Newton had so cautiously deduced from his hypothetical fluid, showing that they were not limited to this hypothesis, viz. that the motions produced by similar bodies, similarly projected in them, would be similar ; that whatever were the pressures, the curves described by the particles would be the same ; and that the resistances wr ould be proportional to the squares of the velocities. He then comes to consider the fluid as having its motions constrained by the form of the canal or by solid obstacles interposed.
He supposes, in the first place, a solid body or obstacle
to be kept fixed by some exterior cause, in a fluid which strikes against it. The filaments, on encountering the obstacle, bend themselves in different directions, and the portion of fluid which covers the anterior part of the body remains stagnant to a certain distance. Now the pressure sustained by the obstacle, or the resistance which it opposes to the fluid, is produced by the los3 of velocity which the particles undergo ; for one body acts on another only by communicating, or tending to communicate, to it a part of its own motion. He then shows that the question reduces itself to find the velocity of the particles which glide past the surface of the body (which he determines in two different ways) ; and this velocity being found, we have the rigorous formulæ for the pressure. It then only remains, theoretically speaking, to compute the formula: in order to obtain results applicable in practice. But this is what we can scarcely hope to accomplish without restricting their generality, and neglecting some of the conditions which essentially belong to the question. So inadequate are our mathematical theories to cope with the difficulty, that even D’Alembert has not been able to exemplify the application of the equation to the simplest case which can be proposed, namely, thc direct impulse on a plane surface wholly immersed in the fluid. All that he is enabled to do, is to apply it (by some modifications and substitutions which take it out of its state of extreme generality) to th
∣
e direct impulse of a vein of fluid on a plane which deflects it wholly, and thus to show its conformity to the solution given by Daniel Bernoulli, and to observation and experience. He shows, that this impulse (independent of the deficiency arising from the plane not being of infinite extent) is somewhat less than the weight of a column whose base is the section of the vein, antl whose height is twice the fall necessary for communicating the velocity. This great philosopher and geometer concludes by saying, that he does not believe that any method can be found for solving this problem that is more direct and simple ; and imagines, that if the deductions from it shall be found not to agree with experiment, we must give up all hopes of determining the resistance of fluids by theory.@@1
In the present state of the theory of hydrodynamics, it would be of great importance to multiply experiments on the resistance of bodies. Those of the French academy arc undoubtedly of much value, and will always be appealed to ; but there are circumstances in those experiments which render them more complicated than is proper for a general theory, and which therefore limit the conclusions which we wish to draw from them. The bodies were floating on the surface. This greatly modifies the deflections of the filaments of water, causing some to deflect laterally which would otherwise have remained in one vertical plane ; and this circumstance also necessarily produced what the academicians called the
remow
or accumulation on thc anterior part of the body, and depression behind it. This produced an additional resistance, which was measured with great difficulty and uncertainty. The effect of adhesion must also have been very considerable, and very different in the different cases ; and it is of difficult calculation. It cannot perhaps be totally removed in any experiment, and it is necessary to consider it as making part of the resistance in the most important practical cases, viz. the motion of ships. Here we see that its effect is very great. Every seaman knows that the speed even of a copper-sheathed ship is
greatly 
increased by greasing her bottom. The difference is too remarkable to admit of a doubt : nor should we be surprised at this, when we attend to the diminution of the motion of water in long pipes. A smooth pipe four and a half inches diameter and 500 yards long yields but one fifth of the quantity which it ought to do independently of friction. But adhesion produces a great effect, which cannot be compared with friction. We see that water flowing through a hole in a thin plate will be increased in quantity fully one third by adding a little tube whose length is about twice the diameter of the hole. The adhesion therefore will greatly modify the action of the filaments both on the solid body and on each other, and will change both the forms of the curves and the velocities in different points.
The form of these experiments of the academy is ill suited to the examination of the resistance of bodies wholly immersed in the fluid. The form of experiment adopted by Robins for the resistance of air, and afterwards by the Chevalier Borda for water, is free from these inconveniences, and is susceptible of equal accuracy. The great advantage of both is the exact knowledge which they give us of the velocity of the motion ; a circumstance essentially necessary, and but imperfectly known in the experiments of Mariotte and others, who examined quiescent bodies exposed to the action of a stream. It is extremely difficult to measure the velocity of a stream, which is also very different in its different parts. It is swτ iftest of all in the middle superficial filament, and diminishes as we recede from this towards the sides or bottom, and the rate of diminution is not precisely known.
It were greatly to be wished that some more palpable argument could be found for the existence of a quantity of stagnant fluid at the anterior and posterior parts of the body. The one already given, derived from the consideration that no motion changes either its velocity or direction by finite quantities in an instant, is unexceptionable, but gives us little information. But surely there are circumstances which rigorously determine the extent of this stagnant fluid. And it appears, without doubt, that if there were no cohesion or friction, this space will have a determined ratio to the size of the body (the figures of the bodies being supposed similar). Suppose a plane surface AB, as in fig. 10, there can be no doubt but that the figure AaDèB will in every case be similar. But if we suppose an adhesion or tenacity which is constant, this may make a change both in its extent and its form ; for its constancy of form depends on the disturbing forces being always as the squares of the velocity ; and this ratio of the disturbing forces is preserved, while the inertia of the fluid is the only agent and patient in the process. But when we add to this the constant (that is, invariable) disturbing force of tenacity, a change of form and dimensions must happen. In like manner, the friction, or something analogous to friction, which produces an effect proportional to the velocity, must alter this necessary ratio of the whole disturbing forces. We may conclude, that the effect of both these circumstances will be to diminish the quantity of this stagnant fluid, by licking it away externally ; and to this we must ascribe the fact, that the part ADB is never perfectly stagnant, but is generally disturbed with a whirling motion. We may also conclude, that this stagnant fluid will be more
1
@@@ The rigorous equations of the motions of fluids, whether incompressible or elastic, were first given by D’Alembert in his
Essai d'une Nouvelle TktMiie sur la Etsislancc des Fluides,
1752 ; but the analytical theory was greatly simplified, and the formulæ, which are expressed by equations of partial differences, rendered completely general, by Euler (Berlin Memoirs, 1755). The general equations of motion have been still further simplified by Lagrange, and if it were possible to integrate them, we should be enabled to determine completely, in every case, all the circumstances of the action of a fluid put in motion by any forces whatever. But the dif-Acuity Ofeffecting the integrations has hitherto proved insuperable, and mathematicians have hitherto been obliged, even in the solution of the simplest problems, to have recourse to particular methods, grounded on restricted hypotheses. See Fourth Preliminary Dissertation, sect. 2.
incurvated between F and H than it would have been, independent of tenacity and friction. And, lastly, we may conclude, that there will be something opposite to pressure, or something which we may call
abstraction,
exerted on the posterior part of the body which moves in a tenacious fluid, or is exposed to the stream of such a fluid ; for the stagnant fluid adheres to the posterior surface, and the passing fluid tends to draw it away both by its tenacity and by its friction. This must augment the apparent impulse of the stream on such a body ; and it must greatly augment the resistance, that is, the motion lost by this body in its progress through the tenacious fluid ; for the body must drag along with it this stagnant fluid, and drag it in opposition to the tenacity and friction of the surrounding fluid. The effect of this is most remarkably seen in the resistances to the motion of pendulums ; and the Chevalier du Buat, in his examination of Newton’s experiments, clearly shows that this constitutes the greatest part of the resistance.
We cannot conclude this dissertation better, than by giving an account of some experiments of the Chevalier du Buat, which seem of immense consequence, and tend to give us entirely new views of the subject. Du Buat observed the motion of water issuing from a glass cylinder through a narrow ring formed by a bottom of smaller diameter ; that is, the cylinder was open at both ends, and there was placed at its lower end a circle of smaller diameter, by way of bottom, which left a ring all around. He threw some powdered sealing-wax into the water, and observed with great attention the motion of its small particles. He saw those which happened to be in the very axis of the cylinder descend along the axis with a motion pretty uniform, till they came very near the bottom ; from this they continued to descend very slotvly, till they were almost in contact with the bottom ; they then deviated from the centre, and approached the orifice in straight lines and with an accelerated motion, and at last darted into the orifice with great rapidity. He had observed a thing similar to this in a horizontal canal, in which he had set up a small board like a dam or bar, over which the water flowed. He had thrown a gooseberry into the water, in order to measure the velocity at the bottom, the gooseberry being a small matter heavier than water. It approached the dam uniformly till about three inches from it. Here it almost stood still, but it continued to advance till almost in contact. It then rose from the bottom along the inside of the dam with an accelerated motion, and quickly escaped over the top.
Hence he concluded that the water which covers the anterior part of the body exposed to the stream is not perfectly stagnant, and that the filaments recede from the axis in curves, which converge to the surface of the body as different hyperbolas converge to the same assymptote, and that they move with a velocity continually increasing till they escape round the sides of the body.
He had established a proposition concerning the pressure which water in motion exerts on the surface along which it glides, viz.
that the pressure is equal to that which it would exert if at rest,
minus
the weight of the column whose height would produce the velocity of the passing stream. 
Consequently the pressure which the stream exerts on the surface perpendicularly exposed to it will depend on the velocity with which it glides along it, and will diminish from the centre to the circumference. This, says he, may be the reason why the impulse on a plane wholly immersed is but one half of that on a plane which deflects the whole stream.
He contrived a very ingenious instrument for examining this theory. A square brass plate ABGF (fig. 13) was pierced with a great number of holes, and fixed in the front of a shallow box HK, represented edgewise. The back of this box was pierced with a hole C, in which was
inserted the tube of glass CDp, bent
square at D. This instrument was ex
posed to a stream of water, which beat
on the brass plate. The water having
filled the box through the holes, stood
at an equal height in the glass tube when
the surrounding water was stagnant ; but
when it was in motion it always stood in
the tube above the level of the smooth
water without, and thus indicated the
pressure occasioned by the action of the
stream.
Wllen the instrument was not wholly immersed, there was always a considerable accumulation against the front of the box, and a depression behind it. The water before it was by no means stagnant ; indeed it should not be, as Du Buat observes ; for it consists of the water which was escaping on all sides, and Lhereforeupwards from the axis of the stream, which meets the plate perpendicularly in C considerably under the surface. It escapes upw ards ; and if the body w, ere sufficiently immersed, it would escape in this direction almost as easily as laterally. But in the present circumstances it heaps up, till the elevation occasions it to fall off sidewise as fast as it is renewed. When the instrument was immersed more than its semi-diameter under the surface, the water still rose above the level, and there was a great depression immediately behind this elevation. In consequence of this difficulty of escaping upwards, the water flow’s off laterally ; and if the horizontal dimensions of the surface are great, this lateral efflux becomes more difficult, and requires a greater accumulation. From this it happens, that the resistance of broad surfaces equally immersed is greater than in the proportion of the breadth. A plane of two feet wide and one foot deep, when it is not completely immersed, will be more resisted than a plane two feet deep and one foot wide ; for there will be an accumulation against both ; and even if these were equal in height, the additional surface will be greatest in the widest body ; and the elevation will be greater, because the lateral escape is more difficult.
The circumstances chiefly to be attended to are these. The pressure on the centre was much greater than towards the border, and, in general, the height of the water in the tube DE was more than ⅛ of the height necessary for producing the velocity when only the centre hole was open. When various holes were opened at different distances from the centre, the height of the water in DE continually diminished as the hole was nearer the border. At a certain distance from the border the water at E was level with the surrounding water, so that no pressure was exerted on that hole. But the most unexpected and remarkable circumstance was, that in great velocities, the holes at the very border, and even to a small distance from it, not only sustained no pressure, but even gave out water ; for the water in the tube was lower than the surrounding water. Du Buat calls this a
non-pressure.
In a case in which the velocity of the stream was three feet, and the pressure on the central hole caused the water in the vertical tube to stand 33 lines or ¼¼ of an inch above the level of the surrounding smooth water, the action on a hole at the lower comer of the square caused it to stand 12 lines lower than the surrounding water. Now the velocity of the stream in this experiment was 36 inches per second. This requires 2l¼ lines for its productive fall, whereas the pressure on the central hole was 33. This approaches to the pressure on a surface which deflects it w, holly. The intermediate holes gave every variation of pressure, and the diminution was more rapid as the holes were nearer the edge ; but the law of diminution could not be observed.
This is quite a new and most unexpected circumstance in the action of fluids on solid bodies, and renders the sub
ject more intricate than ever ; yet it is by no means inconsistent with the genuine principles of hydrostatics or hydraulics. In as far as Du Buat’s proposition concerning the pressure of moving fluids is true, it is very reasonable to say, that when the lateral velocity with which the fluid tends to escape exceeds the velocity of percussion, the height necessary for producing this velocity must exceed that which would produce the other, and a non-pressure must be observed. And if we consider the forms of the lateral filaments near the edge of the body, we see that the concavity of the curve is turned towards the body, and that the centrifugal forces tend to diminish their pressure on the body. If the middle alone were struck with a considerable velocity, the water might even rebound, as is frequently observed. This
actual
rebounding is here prevented by the surrounding water, which is moving with the same velocity ; but the pressure may be almost annihilated by the 
tendency
to rebound of the inner filaments.
Part (and perhaps a considerable part) of this apparent non-pressure is undoubtedly produced by the tenacity of the water, which licks off with it the water lying in the hole. But at any rate this is an important fact, and gives great value to these experiments. It furnishes a key to many curious phenomena in the resistance of fluids ; and the theory of Du Buat deserves a very serious consideration. It is all contained in the two following propositions.
1.    “
If,
by any cause Xchatever, a column of fluid, whether making part Ofan indefinite fluid, or contained in solid canals, come to move with a given velocity, the pressure which it exerted laterally before its motion, either on the adjoining fluid or on the. sides of the canal, is diminished by the Xceight of α column having the height necessary for communicating tlιc velocity of the motion.
2.    “
7
he pressure on the centre of a plane surface perpendicular to the stream, and wholly immersed in it, is ½ of the weight of a column having the height necessary for communicating the velocity. For
33
is
½ of 2l½.w
He attempted to ascertain the medium pressure on the whole surface, by opening 625 holes dispersed all over it. With the same velocity of current, he found the height in the tube to be 29 lines, or 7½ more than the height necessary for producing the velocity. But he justly concluded this to bc too great a measure, because the holes were ¼ of an inch from the edge ; had there been holes at the very edge, they would have sustained a non-pressure, which would have diminished the height in the tube very considerably. He exposed to the same stream a conical funnel, which raised the water to 34 lines. But this could not be considered as a measure of the pressure on a plane solid surface ; for the central water was undoubtedly scoopcd out, as it were, and the filaments much more deflected than they would have been by a plane surface. Perhaps something of this happened even in every small hole in the former experiments. And this suggests some doubt as to the accuracy of the measurement of the pressure and of the velocity of a current by Pitot’s tube. It surely renders some corrections absolutely necessary. It is a fact, that when exposed to a vein of fluid coming through a short passage, the water in the tube stands on a level with that in the reservoir. Now we know that the velocity of this stream
docs not
exceed what would be produced by a fall equal to -1 fi s1 ∙1 ¼j of the head of water in the reservoir.
Du Buat, by a scrupulous attention to all the circumstances, concludes that the medium of pressure on the
25∙5
whole surface is equal to —— of the weight of a column
having the surface for its base and the productive fall for its height. But we think that there is an uncertainty in this conclusion ; because the height of the water in the vertical tube was undoubtedly augmented by an hydrostatical pressure arising from the accumulation of water above the body which was exposed to the stream.
Since the pressures are as the squares of the velocities, or as the heights
h
which produce the velocities, we may
25∙5
express this pressure by
, g
∣
.r
⅝ or 1'186
h,
or »1/1, the value of
m
being l∙l86. This exceeds considerably the result of the experiments of the French academy. In these it does not appear that
m
sensibly exceeds unity. It is to be observed, that in these experiments the body was moved through still water ; here it is exposed to a stream. These are generally supposed to be equivalent, on the authority of the third law of motion, which makes every action depend on the relative motions. We shall by and by see some causes of difference.
The writers on this subject seem to think their task completed when they have considered the action of the fluid on the anterior part of the body, or that part of it which is before the broadest section, and have paid little or no attention to the hinder part. Yet those who are most interested in the subject, the naval architects, seem convinced that it is of no less importance to attend to the form of the hinder part of a ship. And the universal practice of all nations has been to make the hinder part more acute than the fore part. This has undoubtedly been deduced from experience ; for it is in direct opposition to any notions which a person would naturally form on this subject. Du Buat therefore thought it very necessary to examine the action of the water on the hinder part of the body by the same method. And, previous to this examination, in order to acquire some scientific notions of the subject, he made the following very curious and instructive experiment.
Two little conical pipes A and B (fig. 14) were inserted into the upright side of a prismatic vessel. They were an inch long, and their diameters at the inner and outer ends were five and four lines.
A was fifty-seven lines under the surface, and B was seventy-three.
A glass syphon was made of the shape represented in the figure, and its internal diameter was l¼ line.
It was placed with its mouth in the axis, and even with the base of the conical pipe. The pipes being shut, the vessel was filled with water, and it was made to stand on a level in the two legs of the syphon, the upper part being full
of
air. When this syphon was applied to the pipe A, and the water running freely, it rose thirty· two lines in the short leg, and sunk as much in the other. When it was applied to the pipe B, the water rose forty-one lines in the one leg of the syphon, and sunk as much in the other.
He reasons in this manner from the experiment. The ring comprehended between the end of the syphon and the sides of the conical tube being the narrowest part of the orifice, the water issued with the velocity corresponding to the height of the water in the vessel above the orifice, diminished for the contraction. If therefore the cylinder of water immediately before the mouth of the syphon issued with the same velocity, the tube would be emptied through a height equal to this head of water
(charge).
If, on the contrary, this cylinder of water, immediately before the mouth of the syphon, were stagnant, the water in it would exert its full pressure on the mouth of the syphon, and the water in the syphon would be level with the watcr in the vessel. Between these extremes we must find riιe real state of the case, and we must measure the force of nonpressure by the rise of the water in the syphon.
We see that in both experiments it bears an accurate
proportion to the depth under the surface. For 57 : 73 = 32:41 very nearly. He therefore estimates the nonpressure to be -j⅛⅞ of the height of the water above the orifice.
We are disposed to think that the ingenious author has not reasoned accurately from the experiment. In the first place, the force indicated by the experiment, whatever be its origin, is certainly double of what he supposes ; for it must be measured by the sum of the rise of the water in one leg, and its depression in the other, the weight of the air in the bend of the syphon being neglected. It is precisely analogous to the force acting on the water oscillating in a syphon, which is acknowledged to be the sum of the elevation and depression. The force indicated by the experiment therefore is ¼ J
⅙
of the height of the water above the orifice. The force exhibited in this experiment bears a still greater proportion to the productive height ; for it is certain that the water
did not
issue with the velocity acquired by the fall from the surface, and probably did not exceed two thirds of it. The effect of contraction must have been considerable and uncertain. The velocity should have been measured both by the amplitude of the jet and by the quantity of water discharged. In the next place, we apprehend that much of the effect is produced by the tenacity of the water, which drags along with it the water which would have slowly issued from the syphon had the other end not dipped into the water of the vessel. We know that if the horizontal part of the syphon had been continued far enough, and if no retardation were occasioned by friction, the column of water in the upright Lg would lιave accelerated like any heavy body ; and when the last of it had arrived at the bottom of that leg, the whole in the horizontal part would be moving with the velocity acquired by falling from the surface. The water of the vessel which issues through the surrounding ring very quickly acquires a much greater velocity than what the water descending in the syphon would acquire in the same time, and it drags this last water along with it both by tenacity and friction, and it drags it out till its action is opposed by the want of equilibrium produced in the syphon by the elevation in the one leg and the depression in the other. We imagine that little can be concluded from the experiment with respect to the real non-pressure. Nay, if the sides of the syphon be supposed infinitely thin, so that there w>ould be no curvature of the filaments of the surrounding water at the mouth of the syphon, we do not very distinctly see any source of non-pressure : for we are not altogether satisfied with the proof which Du Buat offers for this measure of the pressure of a stream of fluid gliding along a surface, 
and obstructed by friction or any other cause.
We imagine that passing water in the present experiment would be a little retarded by accelerating continually the water descending in the syphon, and renewed a-top, supposing the upper end open ; because this water would not of itself acquire more than half this velocity. It however drags it out, till it not only resists with a force equal to the weight of the whole vertical column, but even exceeds it by -⅛¾. This it is able to do, because the whole pressure by which the water issues from an orifice has been shown by Daniel Bernoulli to be equal to twice this weight. We therefore consider this beautiful experiment as chiefly valuable, by giving us a measure of the tenacity of the water ; and we wish that it were repeated in a variety of depths, in order to discover what relation the force exerted bears to the depth. It would seem that the tenacity, being a certain determinate thing, the proportion of 100 to 112 would not be constant ; and that the observed ratio woιdd be made up of tw o parts, one of them constant, and the other proportional to the depth under the surface.
But still this experiment is intimately connected with the matter in hand ; and this apparent non-pressure on the
hinder part of a body exposed to a stream, from whatever causes it proceeds, does operate in the action of water on this hinder part, and must be taken into the account.
We must therefore follow Du Buat in his discussions on this subject. A prismatic body, having its prow and poop equal and parallel surfaces, and plunged horizontally into a fluid, will require a force to keep it firm in the direction of its axis precisely equal to the difference between the real pressures exerted on its prow and poop. If the fluid is at rest, this difference will be nothing, because the opposite dead pressures of the fluid will be equal ; but in a stream, there is Superadded to the dead pressure on the prow the active pressure arising from the deflections of the filaments of this fluid.
If the dead pressure on the poop remained in its full intensity by the perfect stagnation of the water behind it, the whole sensible pressure on the body would be the active pressure only on the prow, represented by
m h.
If, on the other hand, we could suppose that the water behind the body moved continually away from it (being renewed laterally) with the velocity of the stream, the dead pressure would be entirely removed from its poop, and the whole sensible pressure, or what must be opposed by some external force, would be
rn h-
⅙
-h.
Neither of these can happen ; and the real state of the case must be between these extremes.
The following experiments were tried. The perforated box with its vertical tube was exposed to the stream, the brass plate being turned down the stream. The velocity w as again 36 inches per second.
The central hole A alone being opened, gave a nonpressure of.......................................13 lines ;
a hole B,
⅙
of an inch from the edge, gave... 15
a hole C, near the surface........................15∙7
a hole D, at the lower angle.....................15∙3
Here it appears that there is a very considerable non
pressure, increasing from the centre to the border. This increase undoubtedly proceeds from the greater lateral velocity with which the water is gliding in from the sides. The water behind was by no means stagnant, although moving off with a much smaller velocity than that of the passing stream, and it was visibly removed from the sides, and gradually licked away at its further extremity.
Another box, having a great number of holes, all open, indicated a medium of non-pressure equal to 13
⅙
lines.
Another of larger dimensions, but having fewer holes, indicated a non-pressure of 12½.
But the most remarkable and the most important phenomena were the following.
The first box was fixed to the side of another box, so that when all was made smooth it made a perfect cube, of which the perforated brass plate made the poop.
The apparatus being now exposed on the stream, with the perforated plate looking down the stream,
The hole    A indicated    a non-pressure..................=7∙2
B...................................................8
C...................................................6
Here was a great diminution of the non-pressures, produced by the distance between the prow and the poop.
This box was then fitted in the same manner, so as to make the poop of a box three feet long. In tllis situation the non-pressures were as follows.
Hole A........................................................1∙5
B........................................................3∙2
The non-pressures were still farther diminished by this increase of length.
The box was then exposed with all the holes open in three different situations.
1st, Single, giving a non-pressure.......................IS-I
2d, Making the poop of a cube...........................5∙3
3d, Making the poop of a box three feet long..........3∙0
Another large box.
1st, Single...................................................12-2
2d, Poop of a cube........................................ 5
3d, Poop of the long box................................. 3∙2
These are most valuable experiments. They plainly show how important it is to consider the action on the hinder part of-the body. For the whole impulse or resistance, which must be withstood or overcome by the external force, is the sum of the active pressure on the fore part, and of the non-pressure on the hinder part ; and they show that this does not depend solely on the form of the prow and poop, but also, and perhaps chiefly, on the length of the body. We see that the non-pressure on the hinder part was prodigiously diminished (reduced to one fourth) by making the length of the body triple of the breadth. And hence it appears, that merely lengthening a ship, without making any change in the form either of her prow or her poop, will greatly diminish tlle resistance to her motion through the water ; and this increase of length may be made by continuing the form of the midship frame in several timbers along the keel, by which the capacity of the ship, and her power of carrying sail, will be greatly increased, and her other qualities improved, while her speed is augmented.
It is of importance to consider a little the physical cause of tllis change. The motions are extremely complicated, and we must be contented if we can but perceive a tew leading circumstances.
The water is turned aside by the anterior part of the body, and the velocity of the filaments is increased, and they acquire.a divergent motion, by which they also push aside the surrounding water. On each side of the body, therefore, they are moving in a divergent direction, and with an increased velocity. But as they are on all sides pressed by the fluid without them, their motions gradually approach parallelism, and their velocities to an equality with that of the stream. The progressive velocity, or that in the direction of the stream, is checked, at least at first. But since we observe the filaments condensed round the body, and that they are not deflected at right angles to their former direction, it is plain that the real velocity of a filament in its oblique path is augmented. We always observe, that a stone lying in the sand, and exposed to the wash of the sea, is laid bare at the bottom, and the sand is generally washed away to some distance all round. This is owing to the increased velocity of the water which comes into contact with the stone. It takes up more sand than it can keep floating, and it deposits it at a little distance all around, forming a little bank, which surrounds the stone at a small distance. When the filaments of water have passed tlle body, they are pressed by the ambient fluid into the place which it has quitted, and they glide round its stern, and fill up the space behind. The more divergent and the more rapid they are, when about to fall in behind, the more of the circumambient pressure must be employed to turn them into the trough behind the body, and less of it will remain to press them to the body itself. The extreme of this must obtain when the stream is obstructed by a thin plane only. But when there is some distance between the prow and the poop, the divergency of the filaments which had been turned aside by the prow is diminished by the time that they have come abreast of the stern, and should turn in behind it. They are therefore more readily made to converge behind the body, and a more considerable part of the surrounding pressure remains unexpended, and therefore presses the water against the stern ; and it is evident that this advantage must be so much the greater as the body is longer. But the advantage will soon be susceptible of no very considerable increase ; for the lateral, and divergent, and accelerated filaments, will soon become so nearly parallel and equally
rapid with the rest of the stream, that a great increase of length will not make any considerable change in these particulars ; and it must be accompanied with an increase of friction.
These are very obvious reflections. And if we attend minutely to the way in which the almost stagnant fluid behind the body is expended and renewed, we shall see all these effects confirmed and augmented. But as we cannot say anything on this subject that is precise, or that can be made the subject of computation, it is needless to enter into a more minute discussion. The diminution of the nonpressure towards the centre most probably arises from the smaller force which is necessary to be expended in the inflection of the lateral filaments, already inflected in some degree, and having their velocity diminished. But it is a subject highly deserving the attention of mathematicians ; and we presume to invite them to the study of the motions of these lateral filaments passing the body, and pressed into its wake by forces which are susceptible of no difficult investigation. It seems highly probable, that if a prismatic box, with a square stem, were fitted with an addition precisely shaped like the water which would (abstracting tenacity and friction) have been stagnant behind it, the quantity of non-pressure would be the smallest possible. The mathematician would surely discover circumstances which would furnish some maxims of construction for the hinder part as well as for the prow. And as his speculations on tllis last have not been wholly fruitless, we may expect advantages from his attention to this part, so much neglected.
In the mean time, let us attend to the deductions which Du Buat has made from his few' experiments.
When the velocity is three feet per second, requiring the productive height 2l∙5 lines, the height corresponding to the non-pressure on the poop of a thin plane is 14>∙4Ι lines' (taking in several circumstances of correction, which we have not mentioned), that of a foot cube is 5∙83, and that ofa prism of triple length is 3∙31.
Let
q
express the variable ratio of these heights to the height producing the velocity, so that
qh
may express the non-pressure in every case ; we have,
For a thin plane.....................................7 = 0∙67
a cube.................................................0∙27l
a prism = 3 cubes...................................0∙153
It is evident that the value of
q
has a dependence on the proportion of the length, and the transverse section of the body. A series of experiments on prismatic bodies showed Du Buat that the deviation of the filaments was similar in similar bodies, and that this obtained even in dissimilar prisms, when the lengths were as the square roots of the transverse sections. Although therefore the experiments were not sufficiently numerous for deducing the precise law, it seemed not impossible to derive from them a very useful approximation. By a dexterous comparison he found, that if
l
expresses the length of the prism, and s the area of the transverse section, the non-pressure will be expressed pretty accurately by the formula i = log. ^1∙4∙2 +    But
this formula is applicable only to prismatic bodies.
Hence arises an important remark, that when the height corresponding to the non-pressure is greater than
s∕s,
and the body is little immersed in the fluid, there will be a void behind it. Thus a surface of a square inch, just immersed in a current of three feet per second, will have a void behind it. A foot square will be in a similar condition when the velocity is twelve feet.
We must be careful to distinguish this non-pressure from the other causes of resistance, which are always necessarily combined with it. It is superadditive to the active impression on the prow, to the statical pressure of the accumula-
tion a-head of the body, the statical pressure arising from the depression behind it, the effects of friction, and the effects of tenacity. It is indeed next to impossible to estimate them separately, and many of them are actually combined in the measures now given. Nothing can determine the pure non-pressures till we can ascertain the motions of the filaments.    '
Du Buat here takes occasion to controvert the universally adopted maxim, that the pressure occasioned by a stream of fluid on a fixed body is the same with that on a body moving with equal velocity in a quiescent fluid. He repeated all these experiments with the perforated box in still water. The general distinction was, that both the pressures and the non-pressure in this case were less, and that the differences were chiefly observed near the edges of the surface. The general factor of the pressure of a stream on the anterior surface was
m
= Ll 86 ; but that on a moving body through a still fluid is only tn = 1. He observed no non-pressure even at the very edge of the prow, but even a sensible pressure. The pressure, therefore, or resistance, is more equally diffused over the surface of the prow than the impulse is. He also found that the resistances diminished in a less ratio than the squares of the velocities, especially in small velocities.
The non-pressures increased in a greater ratio than the squares of the velocities. The ratio of the velocities to a small velocity of 2¼ inches per second increased geometrically, the value of
q
increased arithmetically ; and we may determine
q
for any velocity
v
by this formula,
q —
∖
.    V    .
'0 8* 0^^7 ’ that 1s > let t he common logarithm of the ve-
locity in inches, divided by 2¼, be considered as a common number ; divide this common number by 2γ¼, the quotient is
q,
which must be multiplied by the productive height. The product is the pressure.
When Pitot’s tube was exposed to the stream, we had »i=l; but when it is carried through still water,
m
is = 1∙22. Whcn it was turned from the stream, we had
q 
= 0*157 ; but when carried through still water, 7 is = 0∙138. A remarkable experiment.
When the tube was moved laterally through the water, so that the motion was in the direction of the plane of its mouth, the non-pressure was = 1. This is one of his chief arguments for his theory of non-pressure. He does not give the detail of the experiment, and only inserts the result in his table.
As a body exposed to a stream deflects the fluid, heaps it up, and increases its velocity ; so a body moved through a still fluid turns it aside, causes it to swell up before it, and gives it a real motion alongside of it in the opposite direction. And as the body exposed to a stream has a quantity of fluid almost stagnant both before and behind ; so a body moved through a still fluid carries before it and drags after it a quantity of fluid, which accompanies it w'ith nearly an equal velocity. This addition to the quantity of matter in motion must make a diminution of its velocity ; and this forms a very considerable part of the observed resistance.
We cannot, however, help remarking, that it would require very distinct and strong proof iπdecd to overturn the common opinion, which is founded on our most certain and simple conceptions of motion, and on a law of nature to which we have never observed an exception. Du Buat’s experiments, though most judiciously contrived, and executed with scrupulous care, are by no means of this kind. They were, of absolute necessity, very complicated ; and many circumstances, impossible to avoid or to appreciate, rendered the observation, or at least the comparison, of the velocities, very uncertain.
We can see but two circumstances which do not admit
of
an easy or immediate comparison in the two states of the
problem. When a body is exposed to a stream
in our experiments,
in order to have an impulse made on it, there is a force tending to move the body backwards, independent of the real impulse or pressure occasioned by the deflection of the stream. We cannot have a stream except in consequence of a sloping surface. Suppose a body floating on this stream. It will not only sail down
along with the stream,
but it will sail
down the stream,
and will therefore go faster along the canal than the stream does ; for it is floating on an inclined plane ; and if we examine it by the law's of hydrostatics, we shall find, that besides its own tendency to
slide
down this inclined plane, there is an odds of hydrostatical pressure, which
pushes
it down this plane. It will therefore go along the canal faster than the stream. For this acceleration depends on the difference of pressure at the two ends, and will be more remarkable as the body is larger, and especially as it is longer. This may be distinctly observed. All floating bodies go into the stream of the river, because there they find the smallest obstruction to the acquisition of this motion along the inclined plane ; and when a number of bodies are thus floating down the stream, the largest and longest outstrip the rest. A log of wood floating down in this manner may be observed to make its way very fast among the chips and saw-dust which float alongside of it.
Now when, in the course of our experiments, a body is supported against the action of the stream, and the impulse is measured by the force employed to support it, it is plain that part of this force is employed to act against that tendency which the body has to outstrip the stream. This does not appear in our experiment, when we move a body with the velocity of this stream through still water having a horizontal surface.
The other distinguishing circumstance is, that the retardations of a stream arising from friction are found to be nearly as the velocities. When, therefore, a stream moving in a limited canal is checked by a body put in its way, the diminution of velocity occasioned by the friction of the stream having already produced its effect, the impulse is not affected by it ; but when the body puts the still water in motion, the friction of the bottom produces some effect, by retarding the recess of the water. This, however, must be next to nothing.
The chief difference will arise from its being almost impossible to make an exact comparison of tlle velocities ; for when a body is moved against the stream, the relative velocity is the same in all the filaments. But when we expose a body to a stream, the velocity of the different filaments is not the same, because it decreases from the middle of the stream to the sides.
Du Buat found the total sensible resistance of a plate twelve inches square, and measured, not by the height of water in the tube of the perforated box, but by weights acting on the arm of a balance, having its centre fifteen inches under the surface of a stream moving three feet per second, to be 19*46 lbs. ; that of a cube of the same dimensions was 15*22 lbs. ; that of a prism three feet long was 13*87 lbs. ; and that of a prism six feet long was 14*27 lbs. The first three agree extremely well with the determination of w and 7, by the experiments with the perforated box. The total resistance of the last was undoubtedly much increased by friction, and by the retrograde force of so long a prism floating in an inclined stream. This last by computation is 0*223 lbs. ; this added to
h (m
+ 7), which is 13*39 lbs., gives 13*81 lbs., leaving 0*46 lb. for the effect of friction.
If the same resistances be computed on the supposition that the body moves in still water, in which case we have 
m
= 1, and for a thin plate 7 = — log. ~, whence, supposing the velocity to be thirty-six inches per second,
q
= 0∙433 ; and if from this we find values of
q
for the cube and three-feet prism (assuming
q
to vary inversely as log. ^1∙42 + -^J, according to what was above shown),
we shall have for the cube,
q =
0∙172, and for the prism,
q =
0∙102. Hence, if R denote the resistance due both to the pressure and non-pressure of the body when moving in quiescent water, the three values of R will be ll∙433,1∙172, and 1Ί02, which correspond to the weights 14 94 lbs., 12∙22 lbs., and 11∙49 lbs.
Hence Du Buat concludes, that the resistances in these two states are nearly in the ratio of 13 to K). This, he thinks, will account for the difference observed, in the experiments of different authors.
Du Buat next endeavours to ascertain the quantity of water which is made to adhere in some degree to a body which is carried along through still water, or which remains nearly stagnant in the midst of a stream. He takes the sum of the motions in the direction of the stream, viz. the sum of the actual motions of all those particles which have lost part of their motion, and he divides this sum by the general velocity of the stream. The quotient is equivalent to a certain quantity of water perfectly stagnant round the body. Without being able to determine this with precision, he observes, that it augments as the resistance diminishes ; for in the case of a longer body, the filaments a.re observed to converge to a greater distance behind the body. The stagnant mass a-head of the body is more constant ; for the deflection and resistance at the prow are observed not to be affected at the length of the body. By a very nice analysis of many circumstances, he comes to this conclusion, that the whole quantity of fluid, which in this manner accompanies the solid body, remains the same, whatever is the velocity. He might have deduced it at once, from the consideration that the curves described by the filaments are the same in all velocities.
He then relates a number of experiments made to ascertain the absolute quantity thus made to accompany the body. These were made by causing pendulums to oscillate in fluids. Newton had determined the resistances to such oscillation by the diminution of the arches of vibration. Du Buat determines the quantity of dragged fluid by the increase of their duration ; for the stagnation or dragging is in fact adding a quantity of matter to be moved, without any addition to the moving force. It was ingeniously observed by Newton, that the time of oscillation was not sensibly affected by the resistance of the fluid, a compensation almost complete being made by the diminution of the arches of vibration ; and experiment confirmed this. If, therefore, a great augmentation of the time of vibration be observed, it must be ascribed to the additional quantity Of matter which is thus dragged into motion, and it may be employed for its measurement. Thus, let
a
be the length of a pendulum swinging seconds in vacuo, and
l
the length of a seconds pendulum swinging in a fluid. Let
p
be the weight of the body in the fluid, and P the weight of the body displaced by it ; P +
p
will express its weight in va-
P + »
cuo, and ——— will be the ratio of these weights. We
shall therefore have ÏÜ? — 2 an fl ∕ =
n y-.
p l    P + p
Let
n
express the sum of the fluid displaced, and the fluid dragged along,
n
being a greater number than unity, to be determined by experiment. The mass in motion is no longer P+p, but P +
np,
while its weight in the
fluid is still p. Hence
l =
∙i °^—, and n = ⅞(-; — 1
∣
.
r    ηP + p    P
∖
l l
A prodigious number of experiments made by Du Buat
on spheres vibrating in water gave values of
n
which were nearly constant, namely, from 1∙5 to 1∙7 ; and by considering the circumstances which accompanied the variations of 
n
(which he found to arise chiefly from the curvature of the path described by the ball), he states the mean value of the number
n
at 1∙585. So that a sphere in motion drags along with it about -⅛ths of its own bulk of fluid with a velocity equal to its own.
Similar experiments with prisms, pyramids, and other bodies, afforded a complete confirmation of his assertion, that prisms of equal lengths and sections, though dissimilar, dragged equal quantities of fluid ; that similar prisms, and prisms not similar, but whose lengths were as the square root of their sections, dragged quantities proportional to their bulks.
He found a general value of
n
for prismatic bodies, which alone may be considered as a valuable result, namely, 
n =
0- 705    + 1∙13.
From all these circumstances, we see an intimate connection between the pressures, non-prtssures, and the fluid dragged along with the body. Indeed this is immediately deducible from first principles ; for what Du Buat calls the 
dragged fluid
is in fact a certain portion of the whole change of motion produced in the direction of the body’s motion.
It was found, that with respect to thin planes, spheres, and pyramidal bodies of equal bases, the resistances were inversely as the quantities of fluid dragged along.@@1
The reader will readily observe, that these views of the Chevalier du Buat are not so much discoveries of new principles as they are classifications of consequences which may all be deduced from the general principles employed by D’Alembert and other mathematicians. But they greatly assist us in forming notions of different parts of the procedure of nature in the mutual action of fluids and solids on each other. This must be very acceptable in a subject which it is by no means probable that we shall be able to investigate with mathematical precision.
The only circumstance which we have not noticcd in detail, is the change of resistance produced by the void, or tendency to a void, which obtains behind the body ; and we omitted a particular discussion, merely because we could say nothing sufficiently precise on
tlle
subject. Persons not accustomed to the discussions in the physico-mathema-
1
@@@ It is a remarkable circumstance, that these very important conclusions of the Chevalier du Buat, which were first published in the second edition of his well-known work in 1786, and which twice formed the subject of the prize proposed by the Academy of Sciences of Paris, should have been so little attended to by succeeding experimenters, that in the numerous attempts to determine the length of the seconds pendulum, no one thought of applying the additional correction for the reduction to a vacuum, which they so clearly make necessary, until the subject was again brought into notice by Bessel, in a memoir on the length of the seconds pendulum, published in 1828 (Memoirs of the Berlin Academy for 1826), in which the effect of the adhesive air was shown by decisive experiments, and given as an original discovery. Bessel determined the quantity denoted in the text by » in two different ways;—by swinging in air two spheres of equal diameter, but of different specific gravity (brass and ivory), and by swinging the same sphere alternately in air and water. The first mode gave n = 1∙946, a value which he afterwards increased to 1∙956 (Schumacher’s
AAronomisehe Na-chrichteη,
No. 223); and the second gave « = 1625, which is within the limits assigned by Du Buat. Mr BaiIy, who investigated this subject with great care by means of a vacuum apparatus, gives, as the mean result of his experiments, « = l∙846 ; and he observes that the experiments seem to show that in pendulums of equal length and of similar construction, the factor π depends on the 
form
and
magnitude
of the moving body, and is not affected by its weight or specific gravity. (Baily
on thc Correction of a Pendulum j'or the Ucduction to a Pucιιum,
Phil. Trans, for 1832.)
tical sciences are apt to entertain doubts or false notions connected with this circumstance, which we shall attempt to remove.
If a fluid were perfectly incompressible, and were contained in a vessel incapable of extension, it is impossible that any void could be formed behind the body ; and in tllis case it is not very easy to see how motion could be performed in it. A sphere moved in such a medium could not advance the smallest distance, unless
some
particles of the fluid, in filling up the space left by it, moved with a velocity next to infinite. Some degree of compressibility, however small, seems necessary. If this be insensible, it may be rigidly demonstrated, that an external force of compression will make no
sensible
change in the internal motions, or in the resistances. This indeed is not obvious, but is an immediate consequence of the
quaquaversum 
pressure of fluids. As much as the pressure is augmented by the external compressions in one side of a body, so much is it augmented on the other side ; and the same must be said of every particle. Nothing more is necessary for securing the same motions by the same partial and internal forces ; and this is fully verified by experiment. Water remains equally fluid under any compressions. In some of Sir Isaac Newton’s experiments, balls of four inches diameter were made so light as to preponderate in water only three grains. These balls descended in the same manner as they would have descended in a fluid where the resistance was equal in every part ; yet, when they were near the bottom of a vessel nine feet deep, the compression round them was at least 2400 times the moving force ; whereas, when near the top of the vessel, it was not above 50 or CO times.
But in a fluid sensibly compressible, or which is not confined, a void may be left behind the body. Its motion may be so swift that the surrounding pressure may not suffice for filling up the deserted space ; and, in this case, a statical pressure will be added to the resistance. This may be the case in a vessel or pond of water having an open surface exposed to the finite or limited pressure of the atmosphere. The question now is, whether the resistance will be increased by an increase of external pressure ? Supposing a sphere moving near the surface of water, and another moving equally fast at four times the depth. If the motion be so swift that a void is formed in both cases, there is no doubt but that the sphere which moves at the greatest depth is most resisted by the pressure of the water. If there is no void in either case, then, because the quadruple depth would cause the water to flow in with only a double velocity, it would seem that the resistance would be greater ; and indeed the water flowing in laterally with a double velocity produces a quadruple non-pressure. But, on the other hand, the pressure at a small depth may be insufficient for preventing a void, while that below effectually prevents it ; and tllis was observed in some experiments of Borda. The effect, therefore, of greater immersion, or of greater compression, in an elastic fluid, does not follow a precise ratio of the pressure, but depends partly on absolute quantities. It cannot therefore be stated by any very simple formula what increase or diminution of resistance wall result from a greater depth ; and it is chiefly on this account that experiments made with models of ships and mills are not conclusive with respect to the performance of a large machine of the same proportions, without corrections sometimes pretty intricate. We assert, however, with great confidence, that this is of all methods the most exact, and infinitely more certain than anything that can be deduced from the most elaborate calculation from theory. If
the resistances at all depths be equal, the proportionality of the total resistance to the body is exact, and perfectly conformable to observation. It is only in great velocities where the depth has any material influence, and the influence is not near so considerable as we should, at first sight, suppose ; for, in estimating the effect of immersion, which has a relation to the difference of pressure, we must always take in the pressure of the atmosphere ; and thus the pressure at thirty-three feet deep is not thirty-three times the pressure at one foot deep, but only double, or twice as great. The atmospheric pressure is omitted only when the resisted plane is at the very surface.    (b.
B.
b.)
For an account of the experiments of Coulomb, Hutton, and Vince, the reader is referred to Hydrodynamics, chapter iii. (vol. xii. p. 76). We may also refer to a very extensive and valuable series of experiments made in the years 1796-1798, by the late Colonel Beaufoy, in the Greenland Docks at Deptford, the details of which have been recently published in a large and sumptuous quarto volume,@@1 by his son, Henry Beaufoy, Esq., and munificently distributed among scientific institutions and individuals. The following are the principal results :—
1.    The power of the velocity to which the resistance is proportional is a little above the duplicate ratio or square of the velocity when the velocity is two miles per hour ; but the ratio gradually decreases as the velocity increases, and becomes a little less than the duplicate ratio at the velocity of eight miles per hour.
2.    The power of the velocity of the
plus
pressure, or pressure on the head end of the body, is a little above the duplicate ratio.
3.    The power of the velocity of the
minus
pressure, or pressure on the stern end, is in general less than the duplicate ratio, and diminishes as the velocity increases.
4.    A cube is less resisted than a square iron plate equal in dimensions with the side of the cube ; and a cylinder less than a round plane of which the area is equal to the end of the cylinder.
5.    The resistance of a cylinder one foot in length, and the area of the section = 1 square foot, with a semi-globe at each end, when moving with a velocity of eight miles per hour, was 46-29 lbs. avoirdupois ; and the resistance of a globe of the same radius, moving at the same velocity, was 64- 87 ; whence the resistance on the globe was diminished by the interposition of the cylinder, nearly in the ratio of 7 to 5.
6.    As a general result, it was found that bodies whose head ends are formed of curve surfaces were less resisted than bodies of the same dimensions formed of plane surfaces.
7.    The resistance is a minimum when the greatest breadth of the body is at the distance of about two fifths of the length from tlle head end.
8.    Similar bodies appear to be more resisted immediately under the surface than at the depth of six feet.
In the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (vol. xiv. part i.), there is a paper by Mr Russel, containing an account of a series of experiments on the resistances of canal boats, made by him in the years 1834 and 1835, which bring to light some phenomena not previously observed, relative to the resistances on bodies partly immersed and moving in narrow channels, and are important on account of their practical bearing on canal navigation. Thc principal phenomena developed by the experiments were the following :—1
st
, That the resistance does not follow the ratio of the squares of the velocities, excepting when the velocity is small, and the depth of the fluid considerable ;
2d,
that
1
@@@
Nautical and Hydraulic Experiments, Withnumerous Scientific Miscellanies;
by Colonel Mark Beaufoy, F. B. S. &c. In three volumes, with plates. Vol. i. London ; printed at the private press of Henry Beaufoy, F. R. S., South Lambeth, Surrey, 1834. The second and third volumes have not yet appeared.
the increments of the resistance are greateτ than those due to the squares of the velocities as the velocity approaches a certain limit, which depends upon the depth of the fluid ; 
3d,
that immediately after passing this limit, the resistance suffers a sudden diminution, and becomes much less than that due to the square of tlle velocity, after which it continues to receive increments, of which the ratio is less than that due to the increment of the square of the velocity. As these phenomena appeared inconsistent with the received theories of hydrodynamics, it was important to investigate their causes. The deviation from the law of the squares, at the greater velocities, might be ascribed in part to a partial emersion of the floating body ; for the resistance being taken in the ratio of the square of the velocity upon that part only of the body which remains immersed, the aggregate resistance will increase less rapidly at the higher velocities, and may even diminish as the velocity is increased. But the principal and most remarkable part of the phenomena, namely, the rapid increase of resistance as the velocity approaches a certain limit, and its sudden diminution when the velocity passed that limit, was found to depend on the generation of waves, which alter the form of the surface of the fluid, and consequently the position of the floating body.
When a solid body is dragged along the surface of a fluid, a wave is generated which moves in the direction of the motion of the body, with a velocity nearly uniform. The velocity of the wave is independent of the form or velocity of the moving body, and depends only on the depth of the fluid, being in tact equal to the velocity acquired by a body falling in vacuo through a space equal to half the depth of the fluid, as was demonstrated by Lagrange. The existence and mode of propagation of the wave being established, it is easy to see that the resistance will be greatly modified by the position of the moving body relatively to the wave. A vessel coming behind or following the wave is very differently circumstanced from one drawn in a horizontal position along the level surface of a quiescent fluid. The prow is pressed into the anterior wave, and consequently the bow more deeply immersed ; the keel also assumes an inclined position, whence the vertical section of the immersed part of the body is increased, and on both these accounts a greater body of fluid is displaced. In addition to this, the increased immersion of the bow augments the anterior wave, and the augmented height gives rise to more rapid currents along the sides. Thus all the elements of resistance are increased ; and it is obvious, that the more closely the vessel follows on the wave, the more powerful will be the effect of the retarding forces. Hence there is a very rapid increase of resistance in approximating gradually to the velocity of the wave. But if we suppose the vessel to be lifted up on the top of the wave, all the retarding forces are at once annihilated, the vessel recovers its horizontal position, and,
by reason of the curvature of the wave, the immersion of the ends becomes a minimum. When the velocity of the vessel exceeds that of the wave, the displaced fluid is, pushed aside by the prow of the vessel, and is accumulated on both sides of it in the form of a continuous wave, which remains to fill up the void when the vessel has passed through, so that the equilibrium of the hydrostatic pressure is very little disturbed, and immediately restored. Hence it is always found, that the commotion of the fluid is much greater when the velocity of the body is less than that of the wave, than in the contrary case.
The following experiments will give an idea of the manner in which the resistance is affected by the velocity. The depth of the canal was about five feet and a half, and the velocity of the wave from eleven to twelve feet per second, or about eight miles per hour. The weight of the vessel and load was 10,239 lbs.
Velocity in Miles    Moving Force,
per hour.    in lbs.
4∙72    112
5∙92    261
6∙19    275
904    250
10∙48    268∙5.
Thus it appears, that at six miles per hour
behind
the wave, the resistance was greater than at nine miles per hour 
upon
the wave ; and at ten miles and a half per hour it was very little greater than at 5∙9. The breadth of the canal materially affects the resistance. A narrow canal, by preventing the diffusion of the wave, increases its height, whence the resistance is increased when the velocity of the vessel is less than that of the wave ; but when the velocity is greater than that of the wave, the contrary effect takes place. In both cases the narrowness of the canal augments the effect of the wave. The practical importance of these results is obvious.
Some experiments have also been recently made for the purpose of determining the amount and law of atmospheric resistance on railway-carriages. The experiments were made by starting a train of carriages with a given velocity down an inclined plane, and determining the velocity when the train ceased to be accelerated. The inclination of the plane and the weight of the carriages and load being known, the accelerating force of gravity is easily computed ; and as this is equal, when the velocity becomes uniform, to the aggregate resistance, if we subtract the part due to friction, the part attributable to the resistance of the atmosphere becomes known. The results seemed to show that the atmospheric resistance increases in a considerably more rapid ratio than the squares of the volocity, but, on account of the great uncertainty which at present exists respecting the amount of the friction of carriage-wheels constrained to move on rails, they are not deserving of much confidence.
(s.)
RESOLUTION, in
Music.
To resolve a discord or dissonance, says Rousseau, is to carry it according to rule into a consonance in the subsequent chord. There is for that purpose a procedure prescribed, both for the fundamental bass of the dissonant chord, and for the part by which the dissonance is formed.
Resolution
Bay,
a bay on the west coast of Christina, one of the Marquesas Islands, in the South Pacific Ocean. It is so called from Captain Cook’s ship the Resolution having anchored in it in the year 1774. Long. 130. 8. W. Lat. 9. 55. S.
Resolution
Island,
one of the Society Islands, in the South Pacific Ocean, about four miles long. It is very flat, and is covered with wood. Long. 141. 39. W. Lat. 17. 24. S.
RESORT, a French word, sometimes used by English authors to signify the jurisdiction of a court, and particularly one from which there is no appeal. Thus it is said, that the House of Lords judge
en dernier ressort,
or in the last resort.
RESOULABAD, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Agra, district of Etaweh, seventy-two miles west by south from Lucknow. Resoul signifies messenger, a title which belongs to Mahommed ; and a number of small places in the East are called after him.
RESPONDENT, in the schools, one who maintains a thesis in any art or science ; who is thus called from his being required to answer all the objections proposed by the opponent.
REST, the continuance of a body in the same place, or
its continual application or contiguity to the same parts of the ambient or contiguous bodies. It is therefore opposed ,to motion.
Rest, in
Poetry,
is a short pause of the voice in reading, being the same with the
cœsura,
which, in Alexandrine verses, falls on the sixth syllable, but in verses of ten or eleven syllables, on the fourth.
REST-HARROW, or Cammock
1
the
Ononis Arvensis.
A decoction of this plant has been much recommended for horses labouring under a stoppage of urine. It is the pest of some corn-fields ; but in its younger state, before the plant has acquired thorns, it is a most acceptable food for sheep.
RESTAURATION, the act of re-establishing or setting a thing or person in its former state.
RESTITUTION, in a moral and legal sense, is restoring a person to his right, or returning something unjustly taken or detained from him.
Restitution of Medals,
or
Restored Medals,
is a term used by antiquaries for such medals as were struck by the emperors, to retrieve the memory of their predecessors. Hence, in several medals, we find the letters rest. This practice was first begun by Claudius, who struck afresh several medals of Augustus. Nero did the same ; and Titus, imitating his father’s example, struck restitutions of most of his predecessors. Gallienus struck a general restitution of all the preceding emperors on two medals ; the one bearing an altar, the other an eagle without the letters rest.
RESTIVE, in the manège, a stubborn, unruly, ill-broken horse, that stops, or runs back, instead of advancing forward.
RESTORATION, a small island in the South Pacific Ocean, on the east coast of New Holland, discovered by Captain Bligh in 1789. Oysters are plentiful on the shore, and there is also abundance of water.
RESURRECTION, in
Theology,
is arising again from the state of the dead ; in other words, is that event, the belief of which constitutes one of the principal articles in the Christian creed. See Theology.
RESUSCITATION, the same with resurrection and revivification. The term
resuscitation,
however, is more particularly used by chemists for the reproducing a mixed body from its ashes ; an art to which many have pretended, as to reproduce plants, &c. from their ashes.
RETFORD, East, a market-town of the county of Nottingham, in the hundred of Bassetlaw, 145 miles from London. It is situated on the river Idle, which runs into the Trent, is well built, has a town-hall, and good market-place well attended every Saturday. It is a corporate town, governed by four aldermen and twelve councillors. It returns two members to the House of Commons ; but on account of prevalent bribery, the right of voting for the borough has been extended to all the freeholders of the county in which it stands. In the neighbourhood are many hop plantations. The chief trade is what arises from the great road. The population amounted in 1801 to 1948, in 1811 to 2030, in 182I∙to 2461, and in 1831 to 2491.
RETHEL1 an arrondissement of the department of the Ardennes, in France, extending over 472 square miles. It comprehends six cantons, composed of 108 communes, and contains 67,341 inhabitants. The capital is a city of the same name, situated on the right bank of the Aisne. In 1836 it contained 6771 inhabitants, chiefly employed in making coarse woollen goods. Long. 3. 20. E. Lat. 40. 35. N.
RETICULA, or Reticule, in
Astronomy,
a contrivance for measuring very nicely the quantity of eclipses. This instrument, which was introduced by the Academy of Sciences at Paris, is a little frame composed of thirteen fine silken threads, parallel to and at equal distances from each other, placed in the focus of object-glasses of tele
scopes ; that is, in the place where the image of the luminary is painted in its full extent. The diameter of the sun or moon is consequently thus seen divided into twelve equal parts or digits ; so that, in order to ascertain the quantity of the eclipse, there is nothing more to do than to number the parts that are dark, or that are luminous. As a square reticule is only proper for the diameter of the luminary, not for the circumference of it, it is sometimes made circular, by drawing six concentric, equidistant circles, which perfectly represent the phases of the eclipse. But it is obvious, that whether the reticule be square or circular, it should be perfectly equal to the diameter or circumference of the sun or star, such as it appears in the focus of the glass, otherwise the division cannot be just. Another imperfection in the reticule is, that its magnitude is determined by that of the image in the focus, and of course it will only fit one particular magnitude. But a remedy for these inconveniences was discovered by M. de la Hire, who contrived that the same reticule might serve for all telescopes, and all magnitudes of the luminary in the same eclipse. If two object-glasses be applied against each other, having a common focus, and forming an image of a certain magnitude, this image will increase in proportion as the distance between the two glasses is increased, at least to a certain limit. If therefore a reticule be taken of such a magnitude as just to comprehend the greatest diameter the sun or moon can ever have in the common focus of two object-glasses applied to each other, it is only necessary to remove them from each other, as the star becomes less, in order to have the image still exactly comprehended in the same reticule. As the silken threads are apt to deviate from the parallelism, by the different temperature of the air, another improvement is, to make the reticule of a thin looking-glass, by drawing lines or circles upon it with the fine point of a diamond.
RETICULATION. Of all the devices which man has invented wherewithal to secure to himself the “ dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle,” few can plead greater antiquity than reticulation ; none has retained its place as an essential item in the catalogue of useful engines so permanently, through all ages and changes, as the net. Other wr eapons and instruments have either fallen into total disuse before the gigantic strides of improvement, or now only minister to our recreation ; but the net, to this hour, forms an indispensable part of the apparatus used by many of the industrious classes of society. As a means of supplying us with a variety of wholesome food, and of enabling us to carry on an extensive commerce with other nations, net-making becomes an art of some importance ; and, as an agreeable occupation to the amateur, it may be reckoned among the chief in point of domestic utility ; and therefore is not in either case to be placed “ next to mere idleness in the scale of insignificance.” Fishing-net making is decidedly now the most extensive branch of reticulation, how serviceable soever it may be for other purposes. To say nothing of the shapes of the various engines of this kind used in our fisheries, their texture is the best that human ingenuity has been able to conceive ; for, when wet, they are easily dried, when torn, easily mended ; they offer little resistance when drawn out of the water, whereby the labour of hauling them is greatly diminished ; the risk of their being overthrown or carried away by tides, currents, or storms, is lessened ; and the more shy fish are not so easily scared away as they otherwise would be by toils more densely wrought ; the sand, the mud, the young fry and spawn, the small insects and other animals inhabiting the waters, find a free passage through the meshes, and thus much wanton destruction of animal life is prevented, whilst a larger abundance and a more regular supply of fish is obtained than by any other mode. Such are some of tlle advantages which principally
result from the delicacy of texture and rarity which, comparatively speaking, all nets exhibit, when fairly used, and no contrivances adopted for abusively increasing the
take. 
The forms of nets vary according to the manner in which they are intended to act, and this is either by entangling the fish in their complicated folds, as in the
trammel,
receiving them into pockets, as in the
trawl,
suspending them by the body in the meshes, as in the
mackerel-net,
imprisoning them within their labyrinth-like
chambers,
as in the
stake-net,
or drawing them to shore, as in the seiwe. It is somewhat extraordinary that it was not until the year 1685 that nets were introduced into Norway, by one Claus Niels Sti-ningen. The fishermen set up a general outcry against so
pernicious an innovation,
and, after much disputing, the question was decided by an appeal to the law, and experience has confirmed the verdict, that nets are not only not prejudicial, but highly conducive to the prosperity of the fishing trade. Of the antiquity of the art of net-making it will not be necessary to enter into any detail ; that nets were invented at a very early period, and have been universally adopted all over the world, and were, and have been ever since, put to an infinite variety of uses, requires no farther proof than can be afforded by a reference to the works of the most ancient authors, both sacred and profane, by whom constant allusion is made to network ; and modern travellers have found it to be in vogue amongst the most rude as well as the most polished nations. For much curious information on this head w, e must refer the reader to
Beckmann
.@@1 One use of the net, however, though known to the ancients, and long since adopted in Italy and other hot climates, has only quite recently, and hitherto but partially, been recognised in this country. It deserves notice, not solely on account of its exhibiting a curious phenomenon in the habits of certain insects highly interesting to the naturalist, but, for the sake of humanity, it is worthy also of the attention of the philanthropist. It has been found by careful experiments that a net made of the finest thread, of any colour, and with meshes of one inch and a quarter square, effectually keeps out the house-fly from the apartments across the open windows of which it is spread.@@2 We must leave it to others to speculate upon the causes which operate on the imagination of the gnat and house-fly, so as to prevent them venturing through the “ capacious breadth of these divisions.” It has been suggested with much probability, that an optical delusion in the eyes of these insects produces this w’onderful effect. The fact having been so well ascertained, what is there, except prejudice, to prevent our taking advantage of it, as affording, at a very trifling expense, and with very little trouble, a material comfort, not only to “ the whole,” but to “ the sick ?” How refreshing will it prove to many a poor helpless sufferer to feel that he can enjoy in hot weather the luxury of fresh air, free from the irksome attacks of these persevering, buzzing, biting disturbers of his peace, at a time when he most needs repose, and ever)’ palliative that art can suggest ! But our limits warn us to commence our practical directions relating to our subject. 1.
Tools and terms used by net-makers :— Accrues, false meshes,
or
quarterings,
are loops inserted in any given row, by which the number of meshes is increased. To
bread
or
Irreathe
a net, is to make a net.
Dead 
netting is a piece without either accrues, or
stole
(stolen) meshes, which last means that a mesh is taken away by netting into two meshes of the preceding row at once, thereby diminishing the net at any part. The
head
of a net is the upper margin, along which the corks are strung upon a rope called the
head-rope.
The
foot
of a net is the opposite or lower margin, which carries the
foot-rope,
on
which, in many cases, leaden plummets are made fast.
Over
means wide, as a
day-net
is three fathoms long, and one
over 
or wide. The
lever
is the first row of a net.
Meshes
are the squares composing the net. A
needle
is the instrument used for holding and netting the material to be netted ; it is made with an
eye
E, a
tongue
T, and
a. fork
F, fig. 1, Plate CCCCXXXV. The twine is wound on it by being passed alternately between the
fork
and round the
tongue,
so that the turns of the string lie parallel to the length of the
needle,
and are kept on by the
tongue
and
fork.
A short
needle,
about four inches long, should be set apart for
mending.
A
spool
or
mesh-pin
is a round (fig. 2) or a flat (fig. 3) piece of wood, on which the
loops
are formed ; the circumference of the
spool
determining the size of the 
loops.
Each
loop
contains two sides of the square mesh ; therefore, supposing that it be required to make a mesh one inch square, that is, measuring one inch from knot to knot, a
spool
two inches circumference must he used. Large meshes may be formed by giving the twine two or more turns round the
spool,
as occasion may require, or the
spool
may be made flat, and of a sufficient width, having a portion cut away to admit the finger and thumb to grasp it conveniently (fig. 3). A pair of
round-pointed scissors,
so as to be carried conveniently in the pocket, and a
knife,
are likewise indispensable. To
return on your work
is, when, in
breading
a cylindrical net, you stop at any given point, turn your work and net back again, instead of going on round and round, as in forming the
regard
of the
hoop
net ; which is a slit made in that engine, through which the fisherman introduces his hand to extract the fish caught therein, when he goes to
look (regarder,
French) what success he has had. 
Taught,
tight ; the twine is pιdled
taught
when a knot is made. 2.
How to make the loop or stitch in netting.
Being so generally understood that any neighbour can in a few minutes teach the uninitiated, we shall not describe the process ; a little careful observation will show more than any written description can, however minute. 3. The same may be said
of making accrues.
It will be easily understood how a very simple manœuvre, when put in practice, becomes apparently complicated when described in words. It would be idle were we, under the plea of rendering this article complete, to encumber it with laboured explanations, if they can be called such, which leave the reader more in the dark than he was before. 4. Thc
bend-knot 
is constantly required for uniting two ends of twine together, &c., and is thus performed. See fig. 4, in which A and B are to be joined. 5.
The art of mending
is of great importance ; for, if the fisherman cannot mend an occasional rent, he will soon be obliged to have a new net. Two or three damaged meshes will, if neglected, speedily become a yawning hole ; whereas the engine will last a long time by taking care to replace injured parts properly, and without delay. By amateur netters and gamekeepers this part of the art of reticulation is generally unheeded, and a bungling confusion of threads, drawn together any how, serving rather to increase the mischief, is substituted for a neat and efficient repair. In order to explain, as clearly as may be, the method to be pursued, we must request the reader to suppose that a net (fig. 5) has an injury in the middle of the space indicated by the dotted lines. We must begin by
cutting
the net, that is, the hole must be enlarged, not only by removing that portion which is actually torn, but by cutting into the sound parts. This operation is represented in fig. 5. The parts to be cut away are marked by the transverse lines
b a a a, c b a a a d,
below the knots of the original net. It will be observed that, whereas at
a a a c, a a a d,
two sides of the meshes are cut,
@@@1 Beckmann’s History of Inventions, art.
Netting.
See also Adams's Roman Antiquities, “ Retiarius.” , See the @@@2 Transactions of the Entomological Society of London, vol. ii.
one
only is removed at
b b.
In performing this manœuvre the workman must be careful to have his net hung before him in its proper position, viz. in the order in which the rows were netted, as in fig. 5. This requires attention, because, if either of the sides
c
or
d
were uppermost, the mischief would be increased when he came to cut away according to the above instructions. The next thing to be done is to unpick the knots of the old meshes, o,
a, α, a, a, a ; 
but the lateral knots c, tf, must
not
be unpicked, for that would destroy the adjoining sound meshes; for the same reason, only
one
side of the meshes ό,
b
is cut. We must .Suppose, then, that the meshes represented by the dotted fines are entirely removed ; the next thing to be done is to replace them. It is evident that this cannot be properly accomplished unless the inserted meshes resemble as accurately as possible those that have been removed. A practised hand will effect this without a spool, but some skilful workmen think that it is infinitely less troublesome, and that the required regularity of the meshes is better insured, if a spool be used suitable to the meshes of the old net. Having filled a
small
needle with twine, make fast the end above the knot at K (fig. 5), hold the spool and needle in the usual way, and take up the loops L, M, N, as in common netting ; when at N, lay aside the spool, and make the side NO. This is done by means of the
bend-knob
the angle P being the
bend
or loop of the knot. The second row is now to be netted in the same way as the first, and so on with the rest, the single side at the end of each row being managed as at NO, and leading down to the row beneath. We have supposed the workman to have begun and ended this first row, netting from left to right; to work back the second row, he has simply to get on the other side of his net, or to turn the latter over, as may be most convenient, and thus to net on as usual from left to right, changing at the end of each row either the position of his net or of his own person. We shall next suppose that the required number of rows, save one, is completed ; wτ e must insert a
junction
row between the row QRST, and that of the old net VWXY. This is done without a spool, by making the side TV fast at V with a
bend-knot 
round the loop of the
old
net at V ; then the side VS with a
bend-knot
at S, round the loop of the
new
piece at S ; then the sides SW, WR1 RX, XQ, QY, in the same manner. Care must be taken that these sides be of the same length as tlιe sides of the other meshes. At the beginning K and the end Y of your work, leave ends
e e,
to prevent the knot slipping. In fig. 5 three rows have been removed, and it will be seen that those loops which have only
one
side removed, are diagonally opposite to each other, and thus it is when an
uneven
number of rows is to be cut away ; but when an
even
number is removed, those loops of which only one side is cut are at opposite angles of ⅛e orifice, but on the same side of the square. 6.
Oblong and square netting.
If it be required to have the net with meshes setting in squares with their sides, accurately at right angles with each other, like the squares in a sash-window-frame, the following method is to be pursued. Net one loop for the first row, draw the spool out and net two loops for the second row, the additional loop being obtained by taking up that one loop which formed your first row twice, or, as it is technically termed,
by setting in a false mesh.
Your second row will thus consist of two loops. Remove the spool, begin the third row, which is to consist of three loops, the additional one being gained as before. Continue thus adding a loop at the
end οi'
each row until you have made your half square as large as you require ; the two
selvages
on each side of your netting forming two sides of your square ; then, before you begin to form the other two sides of your square, net one row of
dead
netting, 
». e.
do not increase or diminish anywhere ; but at the
end 
of the following rows set in a
stole
mesh, ι'. e. take up the
two last loops of the row together. Your net will at last be reduced to one loop again, and will, when stretched out, form a complete square, and all the meshes will stand square with each other. But, supposing you want your net to be longer than it is wide, and yet the meshes composing it to be square, as in the other, you are to proceed as follows : Form half a square as before, the length of one side of which will determine the width of the oblong to bc made. When this is done, you must set in a
false mesh
at the
end
of one rotv, and a
stole
mesh at the
end
of the other row. Continue thus adding and diminishing
alternately,
until your oblong is of the required length, aad this is ascertained by measuring the long side of the netting from
a
to 
b
(fig. 6), from the corner at
a
to the last knot at
b.
Finish off so as to net the part expressed by dotted lines in fig. 6, as you did in the case of the square net, viz. by taking two loops up at once at the
end of each
row. In the
oblong
you need not net a row of plain loops before you begin to finish off, as was done in the
square net.
Oblong and square nets, when worked as now directed, will, when finished, appear in the shape of a lozenge, and so will all the meshes of which they are composed; but when stretched out with the sides at right angles, each to the other, tlle whole net will assume its proper shape. It adds to the finished appearance of the net, if, in making the last single loop of the net, the spool be withdrawn before the knot is
taught,
and
then 
draw the twine up ; the last loop is thus, as it were,
absorbed,
instead of remaining there to spoil the neatness of the work. The single loop, too, with which tlle net was begun, may have its knot sufficiently loosened to enable the workman to tighten up the loop and make it
vanish,
as he did at the other end. A little practice will demonstrate this clearly.
Many net-makers consider it a great saving both of time and twine to make their
hay-nets,
and the like, after this manner ; besides which, the
selvage
thus formed along each side of the net affords sufficient strength without any additional cord to border it. 7.
How to net a round or cylindrical net without having to join.
Net any given number of loops, and, when you come to the end of the row, instead of turning the net over to net a second, keep the spool in the last loop, and with the needle pick up the
flrst 
loop of the row just finished, and net into it in the usual manner ; thus the row will be united. Continue to take up each loop on your right hand in succession, as in ordinary netting, and thus go on netting round and round until you have obtained the required length. The rows will resemble the turns of a spiral spring descending from the top to
tlle 
bottom. 8.
How to make a bag-net from a square.
Net a piece of
dead netting
containing any given number of loops in the row, observing always an
odd
number, as 3, 5, 7, 9, H, according to the proposed size of the bag ; net double the number of rows that there are loops in the row save one, as 5, 9, 13, 17, 21. This done, draw the foundation string, viz. the string on which you netted the
lever,
and fix it in the middle of your square, then net round and round it. The corner loops must be carefully worked for the first few rounds, to make them set even. It is always in the workman’s pow’er to increase the circumference of his bag as he proceeds from the bottom to the mouth, by setting in
false meshes.
In doing this, however, he must observe regularity, and take care to insert his
quarterings 
at equal distances, else the net will be lop-sided, and distorted. 9.
Ofjoiuing two nets together.
Apply one net on the other, supposing each to contain the same number of meshes in the rows to be united, and that the meshes are of the same size ; then, with a spool a ftdl quarter less in size than that on which the nets were
breaded,
net one row along the margins to be joined, taking up tw o loops on the needle,
i. c.
one mesh of each net together; or, if the object be to join the first with the last row of the same net,
of
the
lead-line f h
sewn on to the last row of the
tuck ;
L is the bullet ;
s, s, s, s, s, », s,
the course of the twine, sim- _ ply run through the meshes and round the lead-line ;
t, t, 
the
tie
which holds the mesh on each side the bullet L first; 
v, v, v,
the twine which sews the line to the meshes, passing over the bullet, being threaded through the loops which extend along the length of the bullet. The
trammel
consists of three separate layers of nettings, and derives its name from its conformation
(trois mailles,
French), because it ensnares by
threefold meshes.
The three parts consist of two
out-wallings
and the
lint;
this latter is suspended loosely between the two former, it being made twice their length and twice their depth. The two
out-wallings
are to be of the same size.
The length and depth of this engine varies according to the service it is intended to perform, either in fishing or fowling ; the same may be said of the size of the meshes ; those of the
out-wallings,
however, are generally five times larger from knot to knot than those of the /«'«/. All the parts should be netted
four square
(as
oblong
and
square 
netting is sometimes called, see No. 6 in this article), the Zinf in twine as fine as may be consistent with the required strength, and the
οut-wallings
with much stouter material in proportion. These, when finished, are to be
mounted. 
Fix each of the four comers of one
out-walling
to four pegs driven into the ground, which should be cleared of rubbish, &c. The
out-walling
is to be stretched tight. Pass all round the
lint,
through each mesh, a stout line of twine, as thick as that of which the
out-wallings
are made. This line, and likewise the
lint
at its four corners, is made fast to the four pegs ; the former is drawn tight from peg to peg, but the latter, being longer and wider, hangs loosely. The meshes of the
lint
should be as equally distributed along the line as is possible. Over the
lint
is applied the other
out-walliηy,
the four corners of which are to be fastened to the four pegs. Ifthe engine is intended for fishing, a stout cord must be threaded with round flat corks two inches diameter, and half an inch thick, more or less.
This cord is to be fixed along the
head
of the net by means of pieces of twine whipped two or three times round, and embracing the line of the
lint,
the margins of each
out-walling,
and the
cord
itself. The twine is tied into a firm knot at those points where the cord meets the angles of the
out-walling's
meshes. The floats are placed about six inches apart, and are pierced, so as to embrace the
head-rope
firmly. This last is made fast down
each side of
the net, at the angles of the meshes of the
out-wallings ;
but it has here no floats ; it is extended along the bottom of the net, where it is called
the foot-rope,
and is weighted with small plates of lead rolled and beaten round it with a hammer, as a tag is fixed round a boot-lace, at about every three inches.
The cord that thus surrounds the net must be bent into a loop at each end of the top of the net, for to these is to be made fast a
draw-rope
when the net is
shot.
Some net-makers also tie the three layers of net together at each angle of the meshes of the
out-wallings
throughout the area of the net, to give additional strength, and to prevent the Λwf getting
huddled
together at the bottom when suspended in the water or drawn along the ground. This engine acts thus : The fish or fowl passes through the large mesh of the out-walling, strikes against the
lint,
which, hanging loosely, yields, and protrudes through the corresponding mesh of the other
out-walling,
and thus forms a
cæcum, 
into which the animal falls, and is entangled. The
hoop-net
consists of two parts ; the
body,
and the
valve, funnel, 
or
guild,
which are united in the manner hereafter to be described. Begin w ith the
body
at its lower or pointed end (see fig. 8), and work up to its entrance, thus : Net thirty-seven loops round on a spool four inches circumference, one row. Take a spool two inches circumference and net twcnty rows of
dead
netting. In the next row set in five
the two rows must be accurately placed one upon the other, by folding the net over on itself ; then proceed as before. Sea-nets, such as those for herrings and mackerel, which are made in
rands
or breadths, are joined rand to rand lengthways, or along the
selvages.
The former are composed of three breadths, each thirty-two yards long by fifty loops deep, on a spool three inches in circumference. At the close of each year the lowest rand, which goes deepest into the sea, is removed, and a new one joined on at the top of the net ; so that the rand which was uppermost now becomes second, and that which was second is now the lowest. This latter is removed at the end of the next season, when the same rule is observed in replacing it, and so on every year ; thus the whole of the original net is renewed every three years. This operation is called by net-makers, giving the net a
new jacket.
Another mode of joining, and when performed carefully it is the neatest, is by uniting the two nets, or the two margins of one net, in the same way as the last row of the new piece is joined to the meshes of the old net in
mending.
The first-made side of the
inserted
or
joining work
must be twice as long as the rest, as also the last side of the suture ; for they, in fact, are equivalent to
two
sides of a mesh. The following description of specific nets will serve to furnish examples of the foregoing rules, and of the mode of
mounting
nets, which yet remains to be noticed.
The
easting-net
(fig. 7) is netted round and round (see No. 7 in this article) ; the number of the loops for the 
lever
vary, as well as their size, according as it is intended for
gudgeons,
&c. or
minnows ;
in either case, it would be a great loss of labour if the whole net were made on one spool so small as it is necessary the lower part of this engine should be. Spools therefore of different circumferences are used, diminishing gradually from the largest for the top, to the smallest for the
tuck.
The following will form a good-sized net for
gudgeons
and larger fish. Fill the needle with double twine, net four rounds with a spool two inches and a half circumference, on a
lever
of thirty-six loops ; then use single twine, and in the fifth row set in twelve
false meshes ;
net two rounds dead netting, and then set
∖
nfalse meshes
in the same line with the others, having taken care to set in the
quarterings
of the fifth row so as to divide the circle into equal parts. Net two feet down on the first spool, then one foot down on each of seven other spools, each spool being an eighth of an inch less than the preceding one. Continue to set in
quarterings
in their proper places, and at the commencement of the
eighth foot
set in four additional
false meshes
equidistantly between the 
original quarterings,
and continue putting in the
accrues 
until you have netted a foot and a half more, having taken to your
eighth spool
at the beginning of the
ninth foot; 
then net four rows
dead
netting in
double
twine ; take your 
ninth spool,
and net two feet six inches of
dead
netting for the
tuck,
the last two rounds in
double
twine. Have a stout line with leaden bullets threaded on it, and sew this line, with running stitches, through each mesh, along the lowest row of the net, the interval between each
lead
being two inches. This weighted margin is then turned upwards and inwards, and made fast to the
double twine-work above the tuck,
at about every foot of the circumference, by means of ratlines three inches long. The
lead-line
should be about a foot less in length than the row of the
tuck
to which >t is sewn. The leads are made fast to the line by being tied at each end to prevent slipping, and the holes should be bored as near the size of the line as possible. In
fig.
7, the lines
a, a, a,
show the seams formed by the
accrues
running down tile net ;
d, d, d, d,
are the
ratlines
by which me tuck is suspended from the rows of
double
meshes, marked by dots ;
be, bc,
indicate the
tuck
which forms a senes of pockets, or rather one continuous pocket, inside net, into which the fish fall. Fig. 7* shows a portion
false meshes
equidistantly, then twenty rows of
dead
netting, then a row with five
false meshes ;
repeat this manœuvre ; then net thirty-six rows of
dead
netting, and the next row in 
double
twine ; thus you have an upper and a lower row, as shown in fig. 5, the dotted lines representing the lower row. Cut off the thread which has worked the
upper
row, leaving an end ; empty your needle, and wind on it the thread that proceeds from the
lower
row, and work on with the single twine as follows, taking care, however, to pick up only the loops of the
lower
row as you go round. Net on the same spool fourteen rows of
dead
netting, then at equal distances in tlle circumference of the fifteenth row set in eight
stole 
meshes, then net two rows of
dead
netting, in the next row eight stole meshes in a line with the others ; repeat this action three times more. After you have for the fifth time set in your
stole
meshes, net a row of plain netting ; lay aside the two-inch spool, and take a twelve-inch and net one row. The
valve
is now finished, and must be reflected inwards to gain its right position. You now take your needle, charged with single twine, and join on to that end which was left at the upper row where the valve issued from the
body
of the engine ; with the two-inch spool net eleven rows of dead netting. In the next row set in five
false meshes
at equal distances each from the other, and continue to set in these at every third row eleven times in the same line. This done, make seven rows of
dead
netting, then one row on a four-inch spool in
double
twine. Through this last row a pliant stick is passed, about six feet long, and bent into a
bow
(BBB, fig. 8) ; a piece of cord keeps the extremities in place, answering to the string of the archer’s bow ; the lower meshes of the net’s mouth are strung on this cord, see fig. 8. A weight is generally attached to the 
bow
at its extremities, somewhere towards BB. Four hoops are lashed round the net at HHHH, to prevent its collapsing ; these are larger as they proceed from the point to the mouth, and are made of slighter wood than the bow, the smallest being about one foot three inches diameter, and tlle largest two feet.
Some
hoop-nets
have more tnan one
valve.
In that case the hoops must always be placed at the entrance of the 
valves,
and many netters make a row of
double
twine at those parts, to give additional strength where there is most strain on the netting. The large loops at the bottom of the
funnel
are tied together, in
fasces
of equal number of loops, to four lines, and these are made fast to another line which is threaded through the last row of meshes belonging to the point of the
body,
and which, being drawn tight, closes up the entrance at that part. All the lines are then tied to a support at P, and thus the net is kept extended. The principle of this engine is analogous to that of the common mouse-trap. Wtien there is only one valve (as in fig. 8, V), the fisherman withdraws the fish by loosing the line that closes the body of the engine at P ; but when there are more than one valve, he makes a
regard
in the
body 
between each hoop. A
regard
is thus made : Net round and round, and when arrived at the part wherein you wish to put a
regard, return on your work ;
and when you again come to the place where you altered your mode of netting, return again ; and thus continue until you have made the 
regard
of sufficient length, then work round and round as before.
A
tunnel
for partridges is made like the hoop-net, but without valves.
The
trawl
is a very large and rapacious net, and much discussion has been held as to whether it should be permitted. It would seem, however, upon a careful examination of evidence, that, under proper restrictions, it is not detrimental to the fisheries. This engine is composed of two separate pieces, called the
upper
and the
lower leaf ; 
the meshes are about two inches square. For the
under leaf
or
blade,
net 16Ü loops in
double
twine, two rows, then
with single twine net a plain row ; in the next, set in a
stole
mesh at about the sixth mesh from the beginning, and another at about the sixth mesh from the end of the row ; net three rows of
dead
netting, then set in
stole
meshes as before ; repeat this once again, afterwards go on setting in 
stole meshes
less frequently, t.
e.
leave five rows of dead netting between, until the width of the
blade
is reduced to thirty-six meshes, then net about five feet for the
hose
or 
tail
H, fig. 9. The
wings
are now to be set on to this
leaf. 
For this purpose you must begin working at the other extremity, or top of the
leaf,
as at T or
t ;
net fifty-six loops and stop ; return on your work ; net again to the end of your row (the third), and here, quite at the extremity, set in a
false
mesh ; but when, in the course of netting row after row, you come to the
false
meshes, do
not
take them up, but let them
hang,
as is shown in fig. 9 at B and B of the
wings
W and W. At the
commencement
of every row which alternates with those to which you add a
false 
mesh, at about three loops from the beginning, set in a
stole 
mesh ; thus
the false
meshes will always be on one side, and the
stole
meshes on the other side of the
wing,
which will thus be diminished at last to eighteen meshes. When this is effected, net two rows in
double
twine, not adding or diminishing. Thus one
wing
is done ; net the other in the same way, and take care that the one is exactly the same as the other. The
under
leaf being now finished, we pass on to the structure of the
upper blade,
fig. 10. Net 180
loops 
in
double
twine, two rows ; then with single twine forty rows of
dead
netting; diminish evenly and gradually from 180 to 160 meshes, taking notice that this reduction must be made before you come to a level with the
doιd>le
rows whence the
wings
rose in the other
blade.
Diminish from 160 to thirty-six, as you did when working down the
lower leaf
making the
hose
as before. The
blades
being now finished, must be joined together down their sides, as the sides of a sack are ; and a rope, acting as a binding along the seams, is sewn on, in the same way as the
head-rope
of the 
trammel.
Round the top of the
upper blade
a rope is strung through the meshes, and carried round the
bosom 
BBB, fig. 9, being sewn to, and not threaded through, the 
hanging false loops
of the
wings
W, W. The twτ o blades are then sewn together at certain parts to form
pockets,
in the direction of A, A, A, A, A, A;
oooooo,
being the orifice of the pockets. At L, L, loops of rope are bent, to which lines are hitched for hauling the net out of the sea into the boat. The two
blades
or
leaves
must be
exactly 
of the same length ; for, when joined, the top row of the 
wings
must be even with the top row of the back of the net or
upper blade,
and the
hose
should meet no less accurately at the bottom. When the
trawl
is in the sea, a long beam of about thirty feet in length and seven incites in circumference is lashed to the top of the net, keeping the 
wings
and back extended from point to point. This beam is let into irons, called
trawl-heads,
at each extremity, which serve to sink it. A heavy rope, usually made of old netting, tightly twisted and bound round with strong twine, is lashed along the bosom of the net. Thus
mounted,
the engine is lowered into the sea, being
trailed
or
trawled
along the bottom by means of a rope attached to the boat’s mast, and communicating with each end of the
beam
by a
bridle.
The 
bosom
touches the ground, and the
upper blade
and
beam 
floats over it ; the
bosom’s
rope disturbs the fish at the bottom ; they are, however, Stopped from escaping, by striking against the
upper blade,
which extends over the
bosom,
so they swim down the
trawl
to the Aose ,∙ but this is tied up, so they next attempt to return towards the mouth of the net ; but in their way they fall into the pockets, which only open inwards towards the
hose,
and thus are secured.
Â 
day-net
is used for catching larks from 14th September to 14th November; after that, until 25th February, the
trammel.
The reason of tllis is, that during the latter division of
the season the weather usually is cloudy, and the
doring-glass
of the
day-net
cannot act. The structure of this net is very simple, and is represented in fig. 11. The thread should be very fine, as also that used for the
trammels;
the meshes three quarters of an inch from knot to knot ; two pieces of
oblong
netting, measuring three fathoms by one, are extended to their full width, by being lashed to light staves of the required length, one at each end (see fig. 11, A, A). These two leaves are to be laid on thc ground exactly opposite each other, so accurately, that when they are drawn over, the two margins
m, m
shall touch each other. Each leaf is to be staked down with pegs at the lower corners, at G, G, G, G. A line
P>tj
and
Hg
is to be stretched from the top of the stakes B, B, and fastened firmly to the ground by the pegs
g, g.
Another line is to be stretched from the head of the stakes
b
and
b,
in the direction of AC, AC, and fixed to the ground by a peg C and C. Another line F and F is to proceed from the head of each stake A, A, and is to be joined at H to the
main line,
which draws the leaves over ; F, F should each be at least a fathom long. In the centre D is to be placed the doring-glass, whence proceeds a line E. The fowler retires to his ambuscade, and with his left hand he plays the doring-glass with the line E, and holds the
main line
H in his right ; when the birds are seen playing around the glass, and within reach of the net, he pulls the leaves over with a quick jerk, and thus secures them. The
doring-glass
is thus made : Take a piece of wood (AC, fig. 12)’nine inches long and one and a half thick, cut out in the shape of an arch, and the edges at the top bevelled off so as to make it a six-sided figure. This bow is to be painted red, and covered with pieces of looking-glass along the sides and at each end ; a wooden peg B, six inches long and three fourths of an inch in circumference, a little pointed at the end, with a hole at I, through which the line E (fig. 11) is threaded, must be fixed to the under surface of the arch, at the centre. Take another piece of wood six inches thick and one foot long (fig. 13), sharpened at the end in order to fix it in the ground ; cut out a mortise
in it two inches high, and one inch and three fourths deep ; bore a hole at N and O, large enough to receive the peg B (fig. 12). This device is made to act by winding up the string round the peg several turns, and then pulling it ; then letting it wind itself up again, and then jerking it again ; thus making the glass revolve briskly, as children do their toy windmills.
The object we have had in view is that of embodying, in plain and simple language, a few practical hints on the subject of net-making, so that they may be conveniently consulted by all classes requiring that kind of information. The various engines described may be modified, altered, and combined, as occasion requires. It would be endless to enter into these minutiae, or to give a catalogue of the different nets used, with the technical name for each in different parts of the kingdom. Weshall therefore conclude with a few
general observations.
L In all cases use twine as fine as circumstances will permit, and make your meshes as large as is consistent with the object in view ; for the nets will be thereby more easily dried, lighter, and more efficient. 2. In filling your needle
double,
draw the twine from separate balls. 3. Take greatcare to dry your nets thoroughly, and hang them up away from walls, where rats and mice cannot get at them. 4. Mend them immediately. 5. Keep them well tanned, or immersed in Kyan’s Patent as often as may be necessary ; but never use tar and oil. This mixture has been proved to be inefficient as a preservative, and to be so offensive to the fish as to drive many away from the nets thus prepared, and to impart an unpleasant flavour to those that are caught in them. 6. If you wish to
dye
your nets green, russet, yellow, &c. for fowling or other purposes, send them to the nearest dyer or tanner, as the cheapest and best mode of treatment.    (b. k.)
RETICULUM is a Latin word, signifying a
little net
or
casting net.
It was applied by the Romans to a particular mode of constructing their buildings. In the city of Salino may still be seen remains of some walls, evidently of Roman origin, from the
reticulum.
This structure consists of small pieces of baked earth, cut lozenge-wis e, and disposed with great regularity on the angles, so as to exhibit to the eye the appearance of cut diamonds; and it was called
reticular,
from its resemblance to fishing-nets. The Romans always concealed it under a regular coating of other matter ; and Mr Houel informs us, that this was the only specimen of it which he saw in his travels through Sicily, Malta, and the Lapari Islands. It appears to be the remains of some baths, which had been built for the convenience of sea-bathing.
RETIRADE, in
Fortiflcation,
a kind of retrenchment made in the body of a bastion or other work, which is to be disputed, inch by inch, after the defences are dismantled. It usually consists of two faces, which form a re-entering angle. When a breach is made in a bastion, the enemy may also make retirade or new fortification behind it.
RETIREMENT means a private way of life, or a secret habitation. “ Few,” says an elegant writer, “ are able to bear solitude ; and though retirement is the ostensible object of the greater part, yet, when they are enabled by success to retire, they feel themselves unhappy. Peculiar powers and elegance of mind are necessary to enable us to draw all our resources from ourselves. In a remote and solitary village the mind must be internally active in a great degree, or it will be miserable for want of employment. But in great and populous cities, even while it is passive, it will be constantly amused. It is impossible to walk the streets without finding the attention powerfully solicited on every side. No exertion is necessary. Objects pour themselves into the senses, and it would be difficult to prevent their admittance. But, in retirement, there must be a spirit of philosophy and a store of learning, or else the fancied scenes of bliss will vanish like the colours of the rainbow. Poor Cowley might be said to be melancholy mad. He languished for solitude, and wished to hide himself in the wilds of America. But he was not able to support the solitude of a country village within a few miles of the metropolis. With a virtuous and cheerful family, with a few faithful and good-humoured friends, with a well-selected collection of elegant books, and with a competency, one may enjoy comforts even in the deserted village, which the city, with all its diversions, cannot supply.”
RETORT, in
Chemistry,
an oblong or globular vessel of glass or pbrcelain, with its neck bent, proper for distillation.
RETPOORAH, a town of Hindustan, in the nizam’s territories, province of Berar. It is seventeen miles southeast from Ellichpoor. Long. 78. 21. E. Lat. 21. 19. N.
RETRACTS, amongst horsemen, pricks in a horse’s feet, arising from the fault of the farrier in driving nails that are weak, or in driving them ill pointed or otherwise amiss.
RETROMINGENTS, in
Natural History,
a class or division of animals, whose characteristic is, that they stale or make water backwards, both male and female.
RETZ, Cardinal de. See Gondi.
REUS-PLAUEN, two sovereign principalities in Germany, one belonging to the elder and one to the younger branch of that family. The dominions of the elder branch are divided into two portions, of which the northernmost, called the Lordship of Gera, is surrounded by the Prussian province of Saxony, by the duchies of Saxe-Gotha and of Weimar; and the southernmost by Prussia, Weimar, the kingdom of Saxony, Bavaria, and Saxe-Cobourg. It extends over 612 square miles, and contains the capital, Gera, and ten other cities and towns, with 79,370 inhabitants, all of
whom are Protestants, except about 200 Jews. It is an agricultural district, and the character of its soil and productions resembles that of the other parts of Saxony. The dominions of the younger branch consist of several detached lordships, extending over 472 square miles, and contain 52,205 inhabitants, all adhering to the Lutheran profession. The income of these states amounts together to L.54,000. The soil and productions of both are similar. The military contingent required by the German confederation for both the states is 742 men.
REUTLINGEN, a city of the kingdom of Wirtemberg, in the province of the Black Forest, the capital of the bailiwick of the same name. It is situated on the river Echaz, and is surrounded with walls and ditches. It contains four Lutheran churches, one of which, that of Maria, is remarkable for its tower, 340 feet in height. It contains 1250 houses, mostly built in the style of the middle ages, and the inhabitants amount to 9200. It is celebrated for its leather manufactories ; and paper, cutlery, hardware, and many smaller articles, are produced. In the vicinity good wine is made. Long. 9. 3. 15. E. Lat. 48. 29. 15. N.
REVE, Reeve, or
Grève,
the bailiff of a franchise or manor, and so called, especially in the west of England. Hence shire-reeve, sheriff, port-greve, and the like.
REVEILLE, a beat of drum about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to rise, and that the sentries are to forbear challenging.
REVELATION, the act of revealing, or making a thing public that was before unknown ; it is also used to signify the discoveries made by God to his prophets, and by them to the world ; and more particularly includes the books of the Old and New Testament. See Theology.
REVELS, entertainments of dancing, masking, acting comedies, farces, and the like, anciently very frequent in the inns of court and in noblemen’s houses, but now much disused. The officer who had the direction of the revels at court n, as called the
Master of the Revels.
REVENGE means the return of injury for injury, and differs materially from that sudden resentment which rises in the mind immediately on being injured ; which, so far from being culpable when restrained within due bounds, is absolutely necessary for self-preservation. Revenge, on the contrary, is a cool and deliberate wickedness, and is often executed years after the offence had been given; and the desire of it is generally the effect of littleness, weakness, and vice, whilst to do right, and to suffer wrong, is a mark of a great soul, that scorns to stoop to suggested revenge.
REVENUE. See the articles England, Funding System, Political Economy, and Taxation.
REVERBERATION, in
Physics,
the act of a body repelling or reflecting another after its impinging thereon.
Reverberation, in
Chemistry,
denotes a kind of circulation of the flame by means of a reverberatory furnace.
REVEREND, a title of respect given to ecclesiastics. The religious abroad are called reverend fathers, and abbesses, prioresses, and others reverend mothers. In England, bishops are right reverend, and archbishops most reverend. In France, before the Revolution, the bishops, archbishops, and abbots, were all alike most reverend. In Scotland, tlle clergy individually are reverend, a synod is very reverend, and the general assembly is venerable.
REVERIE, the same with delirium, raving, or distraction. It is used also for any ridiculous, extravagant imagination, action, or proposition ; a chimera, or vision. But the most ordinary use of the word amongst English writers is for a deep disorderly musing or meditation.
REVERSION, in the law of England, has two significations ; the one of which is, an estate left, which continues during a particular state in being ; and the other is the returning of the land, after the particular estate is ended ;
and it is further said to be an interest in lands, when the possession of it fails, or where tile estate, which was for a time parted with, returns to the granters or their heirs. But, according to the usual definition of a reversion, it is the residue of an estate left in the granter, after a particular estate granted away ceases, continuing in the granter of such an estate.
The difference between a remainder and a reversion consists in this, that the remainder may belong to any man except the granter ; whereas the reversion returns to him who conveyed the lands.
Reversion, in annuities. See Annuities.
REVIVIFICATION, in
Chemistry,
a term generally applied to the distillation of quicksilver from cinnabar.
Revivification, in
Physiology,
the recalling to life of animals apparently dead. There are many kinds of insects which may be revivified, after all the powers of animation have been suspended for a considerable time. Common flies, small beetles, spiders, moths, bugs, &c. after being drowned in spirit of wine, and continuing apparently dead for upwards of fifteen minutes, have been restored to life merely by being thrown amongst wood-ashes slightly warm.
Whilst Dr Franklin was in France, he received a quantity of Madeira wane from America, which had been bottled in Virginia. He found a few dead flies in some of the bottles, which he exposed to the sun in the month of July ; and in less than three hours these seemingly dead animals recovered life which had been so long suspended. At first they appeared as if convulsed ; they then raised themselves on their legs, washed their eyes with their fore feet, dressed their wings with those behind, and in a short time began to fly about.
But the most remarkable instance of revivification we have heard of is the following. In tlle warmer parts of France there is an insect very pernicious to the rye, apparently beginning its operations at the foot of the plant, and gradually proceeding towards the ear. If the plant be thoroughly dried whilst the insect is in the root or stem, the animal is irrecoverably killed ; but after it has reached the grain, the case is very different. There have been instances of these insects being brought to life in fifteen minutes, by a little warm water, after the grains in which they were lodged had been kept dry for thirty years.
What is the metaphysician to think of these phenomena, or what conclusion is he to draw from them respecting the mind ? If he be a sober man he will draw no conclusion, and for this reason, that he knows nothing of the sentient principle of insects, or of any animal but man. He is conscious that it is the same individual being that, in himself, thinks, and wills, and feels ; he knows that part of his thought is not in one place, and part of it in another ; and therefore he concludes that this thinking being is not matter, , whιlst experience teaches him that it quits the material system when that becomes unfit to discharge its functions, and cannot be recalled. Experience teaches him, on the other hand, that the sentient principle of these insects does not quit the system when unfit for its functions ; and hence he ought to infer, that the minds of men and of insects are very different, and that the bond which unites the material and immaterial parts of an insect is certainly different from that which unites the mind and body of man. This is the only inference which can be fairly drawn from these phenomena.
REVIEW, a term applied to literary journals, which give a periodical view of thc state of literature.
REVOLUTION, in politics, signifies a change in the constitution of a state, and is a word of different import from revolt, with which it is sometimes confounded. When a people withdraw their obedience from their governors for any particular reason, without overturning the government, or waging an offensive war against it, they are in a
state of revolt ; when they overturn the government, and form a new one for themselves, they effect a revolution. That which is termed the revolution in Britain is the change which, in 1688, took place in consequence of the forced abdication of James H. when the Protestant succession was established, and the constitution restored to its primitive purity.
Revolution, in
Geometry,
the motion of rotation of a line about a fixed point or centre, or of any figure about a fixed axis, or upon any line or surface. Thus, the revolution of a given line about a fixed centre generates a circle ; and that of a right-angled triangle about one side, as an axis, generates a cone ; and that of a semicircle about its diameter generates a sphere or globe.
Revolution, in
Astronomy,
is the period of a star, planet, or comet, or its course from any point of its orbit, till it return to the same again.
REWAH, a town of Hindustan, in the province of Gundwana, district of Boghela. The suburbs are large. Under the fort runs the Bichanaddy, which has its source twenty miles to the east. It contains a good citadel, built of stone, and the country in the vicinity is well cultivated. Long. 81. 25. E. Lat 24. 27. N.
REWARY, a town of Hindustan, province of Delhi, forty miles south-west from the city of Delhi. It is possessed by a native chief, one of the numerous British tributaries. Long. 76. 42. E. Lat. 28. 13. N.
REYNEAU, Charles Rene, commonly known by the name of Father Reyneau, a celebrated mathematician of France, was born in the year 1656, at Brissac, in the province of Anjou. Wllen twenty years of age, he connected himself with the Oratorians, a sort of religious order, the members of which lived in community without binding themselves to the observance of any vows, and turned their chief attention to the instruction of youth. He afterwards taught philosophy at Pezenos, and next at Toulon, which requiring some degree of geometrical knowledge, he became extremely fond of that science, and cultivated and improved it to a great extent. He was, in consequence of his knowledge, invited to fill the mathematical chair at Angers in 1683, and he was also elected a member of the academy in 1694.
He undertook to reduce into a body, for the benefit of his pupils, tlle chief theories which were scattered throughout the works of Newton, Descartes, Leibnitz, Bernoulli, the Leipsic Acts, the Memoirs of the Academy of Paris, and several other works, to which he gave the name of 
Analyse Démontrée,
or Analysis Demonstrated, and which was published in 1708, in two vols, quarto.
He gave to this work the name of Analysis Demonstrated, because he therein demonstrates various methods which had not been demonstrated by their authors, or, at least, not with sufficient accuracy and perspicuity. This work of Reyneau was very much applauded, and it became a general maxim in France, that to follow him was the best, if not the only way, to make any extraordinary progress in the study of mathematics.
Such was his ambition to be useful, that in 1714 he published his
Science du Calcul des Grandeurs,
intended for the benefit of such as were wholly unacquainted with the science of geometry. Of this work a very able judge was pleased to observe, that “ though several books had already appeared upon the same subject, such a treatise as that before him was still wanting, as in it everything was handled in a manner sufficiently extensive, and at the same time with all possible exactness and perspicuity.” Although many branches of the mathematics had been well discussed prior to his time, no good elements were to be met with, even of practical geometry.
When the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris gave admission to other learned and eminent men, Father Rey-neau was received into the number. The works already mentioned are all he ever published, or perhaps ever composed, with the exception of a little piece upon logic ; and materials for a second volume of his
Science du Calcul were 
left behind him in manuscript. Towards the close of life he was too much afflicted with sickness to give much application to study; and he died in 1728, at seventy-two years of age. His many virtues and extensive erudition made this event much regretted by all who had the pleasure of being acquainted with him. It was regarded as an honour and a happiness by the first men in France to number him amongst their friends, such as the chancellor of the kingdom, and Malebranche, of the latter of whom Reyneau was a faithful and zealous disciple.
REYNOLDS, Sir Joshua, the celebrated painter, was born at Plympton, a small town in Devonshire, on the 16th July 1723. His father was minister of the parish, and also master of the grammar school ; and being a man of learning and philanthropy, he was beloved and respected by all to whom he was known. Such a man, it will naturally be supposed, was assiduous in the cultivation of the minds of his children, amongst whom his son Joshua shone conspicuous, by displaying at a very early period a superiority of genius and the rudiments of a correct taste. Unlike other boys, who generally content themselves with giving a literal explanation of their author, regardless of his beauties or his faults, young Reynolds attended to both these, displaying a happy knowledge of what he read, and entering with ardour into the spirit of his author. He discovered likewise talents for composition, and a natural propensity for drawing, in which his friends and intimates thought him qualified to excel. Emulation was a distinguishing feature in his mind, which his father perceived with the delight natural to a parent; and designing him for the church, in which he hoped that his talents might raise him to eminence, he sent him to one of the universities.
Soon after this period he grew passionately fond of painting; and, by the perusal of Richardson’s theory of that art, was determined to make it his profession through'life. At his own earnest request, therefore, he was removed to London ; and about the year 1742 became a pupil to Mr Hudson, who, though not himself an eminent painter, was preceptor to several who afterwards excelled in the art. One of the first advices which he gave to Mr Reynolds was to copy carefully Guercino’s drawings. This was done with such skill, that many of the copies are said to be now preserved in the cabinets of the curious as the originals of that very great master.
About the year 1749, Mr Reynolds went to Italy under the auspices and in the company of Lord, then Commodore, Keppel1 who was appointed to the command of the British squadron in the Mediterranean. In this garden of the world, this magical seat of the arts, he failed not to visit the schools of the great masters, to study the productions of different ages, and to contemplate with unwearied attention the various beauties which are characteristic of each. His labour here, as has been observed of another painter, was “ the labour of love, not the task of the hireling ;” and how much he profited by it is known to all Europe.
Having remained about two years in Italy, and studied the language as well as the arts of the country with great success, he returned to England, improved by travel and refined by education. On the road to London from the port where he landed, he accidentally found in the inn where he lodged Johnson’s life of Savage ; and was so taken with the charms of composition and the masterly delineation of character displayed in that performance, that, having begun to read it whilst leaning with his arm on the chimney-piece, he continued in that attitude insensible of pain till he was hardly able to raise his hand to his head. The admiration
of the work naturally led him to seek the acquaintance of its author, who continued one of his most sincere admirers and warmest friends till 1784, when they were separated by the stroke of death.
The first thing that distinguished him after his return to his native country, was a full-length portrait of Commodore Keppel ; which in the polite circles was spoken of in terms of the highest encomium, and testified to what a degree of eminence he had arrived in his profession. This was followed by a portrait of Lord Edgecumbe, and a few Others, which at once introduced him to the first business in portrait-painting ; and that branch of the art he cultivated with such success as will for ever establish his fame with all descriptions of refined society. Having painted some of the first-rate beauties of the age, the polite world flocked to see the graces and the charms of his pencil ; and he soon became the most fashionable painter, not only in England, but in all Europe. He has indeed preserved the resemblance of so many illustrious characters, that we feel the less regret for his having left behind him so few historical paintings ; though what he has done in that way shows him to have been qualified to excel in both departments.@@1 The only landscape, perhaps, which he ever painted, except those beautiful and chaste ones which compose the back grounds of many of his portraits, is a View on the Thames from Richmond, which in 1784 was exhibited by the Society for Promoting Painting and Design in Liverpool.
In 1764 Mr Reynolds had the merit of being the first promoter of that club which, having long existed without a name, became at last distinguished by the appellation of the
Literary Club.
Upon the foundation of the Royal Academy of Painting, Sculpture, and Architecture, he was appointed president ; and his acknowledged excellence in his profession made the appointment acceptable to all the lovers of art. To add to the dignity of this new institution, his majesty conferred on the president the honour of knighthood ; and Sir Joshua delivered his first discourse at the opening of the academy on the 2d of January 1769. The merit of that discourse has been universally admitted among painters ; but it contains- some directions respecting the proper mode of prosecuting their studies, to which every student of every art would do well to pay attention. “ I would chiefly recommend,” says he, “ that an implicit obedience to the rules of art, as established by the practice of the great masters, should be exacted from the young students. That those models which have passed through the approbation of ages should be considered by them as perfect and infallible guides ; as subjects for their imitation, not their criticism. I am confident, that this is the only efficacious method of making a progress in the arts ; and that he who sets out with doubting, will find life finished before he becomes master of the rudiments. For it may be laid down as a maxim, that he who begins by presuming on his own sense, has ended his studies as soon as he has commenced them. Every opportunity, therefore, should be taken to discountenance that false and vulgar opinion, that rules are the fetters of genius. They are fetters only to men of no genius ; as that armour which, upon the strong, becomes an ornament and a defence, upon the weak and mishapen turns into a load, and cripples the body which it was made to protect.”
Each succeeding year, on the distribution of the prizes, Sir Joshua delivered to the students a discourse of equal merit with this : and perhaps we do not hazard too much when we say, that, from the whole collected, the lover of belles lettres and the fine arts will acquire juster notions of what is meant by taste in general, and better rules for acquiring a correct taste, than from multitudes of those volumes which have been professedly written on the subject.
In the autumn of 1785 he went to Brussels, where he expended about L.1000 on the purchase of paintings, which, having been taken from the different monasteries and religious houses in Flanders and Germany, were then exposed to sale by the command of the Emperor Joseph. Gainsborough and he had engaged to paint each other’s portrait ; and the canvass for both being actually stretched, Sir Joshua gave one sitting to his distinguished rival ; but, to the regret of every admirer of the art, the unexpected death of the latter prevented all further progress.
In 1790 he was anxiously desirous to procure the vacant professorship of perspective in the academy for Mr Bononi, an Italian architect ; but that artist no* having been yet elected an associate, was of course no academician, and it became necessary to raise him to these situations, in order to qualify him for being a professor. Mr Gilpin being his competitor for tlle associateship, the numbers on the ballot proved equal, when the president by his casting vote decided the election in favour of his friend, who was thereby advanced so far towards the professorship. Soon after this, an academic seat being vacant, Sir Joshua exerted all his influence to obtain it for Mr Bononi ; but finding himself outvoted by a majority of two to one, he quitted the chair with great dissatisfaction, and next day sent to the secretary of the academy a formal resignation of the office, which for twenty-one years he had filled with honour to himself and his country. His indignation, however, subsiding, he suffered himself to be prevailed upon to return to tlle chair, which within a year and a half he was again desirous to quit for a better reason.
Finding a disease of languor, occasioned by an enlargement of the liver, to which he had for some time been subject, increase upon him, and daily expecting the total loss of sight, he wrote a letter to the academy, intimating his intention to resign the office of president on account of bodily infirmities, which disabled him from executing the duties of it to his own satisfaction. The academicians received this intelligence with the respectful concern due to the talents and virtues of their president ; and either then did enter, or designed to enter, into a resolution, honourable to all parties, namely, that a deputation from the whole body of the academy should wait upon him, and inform him
of 
their wish, that the authority and privileges of tlle office of president might be his during his life ; declaring their wil-
@@@1 As the lovers of painting may wish to have a catalogue of this great master’s Ilisturical pieces, we subjoin the following :—Hope nursing Love ; Venus chastising Cupid for having learned to cast accounts ; Count Ugolino in the Dungeon ; the Calling of Samuel ; Ariadne; a Captain of Banditti; Beggar Boy; a Ladyin the character of St Agnes; Thais; Dionysius the Areopagite; an infant Jupiter; MasterCrewe in the character of Henry VIII.; the Death of Dido; a Child asleep; Cupid sleeping; Covent Garden Cupid; Cupid in the Clouds ; Cupids painting; Boylaughing; MasterHerbertinthecharacterofBacchus; Hebe; MissMeyer Inthecharacterof Hebe; Madona, a head ; the Blackguard Mercury; a little Boy (Samuel) praying; an old Man reading; Love loosing the zone of Beauty ; the Children in the Wood ; Cleopatra dissolving the Pearl ; Garrick in the character of Kitely ; Garrick between Tragedy and Comedy ; Mrs Abingdon in the character of Comedy ; a Child surrounded by Guardian Angels ; Miss Beau-clerc in tbe character of Spenser’s Una ; Itesignation ; the Duchess of Manchester in the character of Diana; Lady Blake in the character of Juno ; Mrs Sheridan in the character of St Cecilia ; Edwin, from Beattie's Minstrel ; the Nativity, Four Cardinal Virtues, and Faith, Hope, and Charity,
for
the window of New College Chapel, Oxford; the Studious Boy; a Bacchante; a daughter of Lord W. Gordon as an Angel ; the Holy Family ; the Cottagers, from Thomson ; the Vestal ; the Careful Shepherdess ; a Gipsy telling Fortunes ; the infant Hercules strangling the Serpent ; the Mouse-trap Girl; Venus ; Cornelia and her Children ; the Bird ; Melancholy; AIrs Siddons in Tragedy; Headof Lear; MrsTalmash in OtecharacterofMirauda, with Prospero and Caliban; Bobin Goodfellow ; Death of Cardinal Beaufort ; Macbeth, with the Caldron of the Witches.
Hngness to permit the performance of any of its duties which might be irksome to him by a deputy.
From this period Sir Joshua never painted more. The last effort of his pencil was the portrait of Charles James Fox, which was executed in his best style, and shows that his fancy, his imagination, and his other great powers in the art which he professed, remained unabated to the end of his life. When the last touches were given to this picture,
The hand of Reynolds fell, to rise no more.
On Thursday the 23d of February 1792, the world was deprived of this amiable man and excellent artist, at the age of sixty-eight years ; a man than whom no one, according to Johnson, had passed through life with more observation of men and manners. The following character of him is said to be the production of Mr Burke.
“ His illness was long, but borne with a mild and cheerful fortitude, without the least mixture of anything irritable or querulous, agreeably to the placid and even tenor of his whole life. He had from the beginning of his malady a distinct view of his dissolution, which he contemplated with that entire composure which nothing but the innocence, integrity, and usefulness of his life, and an unaffected submission to the will of Providence, could bestow. In this situation he had every consolation from family tenderness, which his tenderness to his family had always merited.
“ Sir Joshua Reynolds was, on very many accounts, one of the most memorable men of his time ; he was the first Englishman who added the praise of the elegant arts to the other glories of his country. In taste, in grace, in facility, in happy invention, and in the richness and harmony of colouring, he was equal to the great masters of the renowned ages. In portrait he went beyond them ; for he communicated to that description of the art in which English artists are the most engaged, a variety, a fancy, and a dignity, derived from the higher branches, which even those who professed them in a superior manner did not always preserve when they delineated individual nature. His portraits remind the spectator of the invention of history and the amenity of landscape. In painting portraits he appears not to be raised upon that platform, but to descend to it from a higher sphere. His paintings illustrate his lessons, and his lessons seem to be derived from his paintings.
“ He possessed the theory as perfectly as the practice of his art. To be such a painter, he was a profound and penetrating philosopher.
“ In full happiness of foreign and domestic fame, admired by the expert in art, and by the learned in science, courted by the great, caressed by sovereign powers, and celebrated by distinguished poets, his native humility, modesty, and candour never forsook him, even on surprise or provocation ; nor was the least degree of arrogance or assumption visible to the scrutinizing eye in any part of his conduct or discourse.
“ His talents of every kind, powerful from nature, and not meanly cultivated in letters, his social virtues in all the relations and all the habitudes of life, rendered him the centre of a very great and unparalleled variety of agreeable societies, which will be dissipated by his death. He had too much merit not to excite some jealousy, too much innocence to provoke any enmity. The loss of no man of his time can be felt with more sincere, general, and unmixed sorrow.” See Painting.
REZAT, a circle of the kingdom of Bavaria, formed out of the ancient Southern Franconia, in the principality of Ans-pach, out of Bavarian Unterland, and the territories of the former free states of Nuremberg, Rottenburg1 Windsheim, and Weissenbourg. It extends over 3052 square miles, and is bounded on the north-west by the circle of the Lower Maine, and on the north-east by that of the Upper Maine, on the east by that of the Regen, on the south by that of
the Upper Maine, and on the west by the territory of the kingdom of Wirtemberg. The circle is divided into forty-one bailiwicks, which comprehend forty-two cities or towns once walled, fifty-five market-towns, and 2004 villages, with 530,726 inhabitants, of whom the far greater part are Lutherans, and most of tlle rest still adhere to the Catholic church. It is generally a level or undulating district, whose waters are partly conveyed by the smaller rivers to the Danube, but the greater portion by the Maine to the Rhine. It is the best cultivated, the most populous, and the most productive division of the kingdom. It yields abundance of corn and cattle, some wine, and all tlle various kinds of common fruits. Its manufactures also are extensive, especially near Nuremberg, but having little water communication, the chief commodities are conveyed by land-carriage.
RHABDOLOGY, or Rabdology, in arithmetic, a name given by Napier of Merchiston, the inventor of logarithms, to a method of performing some of the more difficult operations of numbers by means of square little rods. Upon these are inscribed the simple numbers ; then, by shifting them according to certain rules, those operations are performed by simply adding or subtracting the numbers as they stand upon the rods.
RHADAMANTHUS, a severe judge, and king of Lydia. The poets make him one of the three judges of hell.
RHADÉN, a town of the Prussian province of Westphalia, in the government of Minden, and the capital of the circle of the same name, which extends over 180 square miles, inhabited by 30,000 persons. The town is on the netv canal, and contains 390 houses, with 2680 inhabitants, who make large quantities of linen and of woollen yam.
RHAMA, or Rama, an incarnate deity of the first rank, in Indian mythology. Sir William Jones believes he was the Dionysos of the Greeks, whom they named
Bromius, 
without knowing why ; and
Bugenes
when they represented him
honied,
as well as
Lyaois
and
Eleutherios
the deliverer, and
Tryarnbos
or
Dithyrambos
the triumphant, “ Most of those titles,” says Sir William, “ were adopted by the Romans, by whom he was called
Bruma, Tauriformis, Liber,
and
Triumphus ;
and both nations had records or traditionary accounts of his giving laws to men and deciding their contests, of his improving navigation and commerce, and, what may appear yet more observable, of his conquering India and other countries with an army of satyrs, commanded by no less a personage than Pan ; whom Lil-lius Gyraldus, on what authority I know not, asserts to have resided in Iberia, , when he had returned,’ says the learned mythologist, ‘ from the Indian war, in which he accompanied Bacchus.’ It were superfluous in a mere essay to run any length in the parallel between this European god and tlle sovereign of Ayodhya, whom the Hindus believe to have been an appearance on earth of the preserving power ; to have been a conqueror of the highest renown, and the deliverer of nations from tyrants, as well as of his consort Sita from the giant Ravan king of Lanca ; and to have commanded in chief a numerous and intrepid race of those large monkeys, which our naturalists, or some of them, have denominated Indian satyrs. This general, the prince of satyrs, was named
Hanurnab
or ‘ with high cheek-bones ;’ and with workmen of such agility, he soon raised a bridge of rocks over the sea, part of which, say the Hindus, yet remains ; and it is probably the series of rocks to which the Mussulmans or Portuguese have given the foolish name of 
Adam’s,
or, as it should be called,
Rama’s
Bridge. Might not this army of satyrs have been only a race of mountaineers, whom Rama, if such a monarch ever existed, had civilized ? However that may be, the large breed of Indian apes is at this moment held in high veneration by the Hindus, and fed with devotion by the Brahmins, who seem in two or three places on the banks of the Ganges to have a regular endowment for thc support of them ; they live in
tribes of three or four hundred, are wonderfully gentle (I speak as an eye-witness), and appear to have some kind of order and subordination in their little sylvan polity.” The festival of Rhama is held on the 9th day of the new moon of Chaitra, on which the war of Lanca is dramatically represented, concluding with an exhibition of the fire-ordeal, by which the victor’s wife Sita gave proof of her connubial fidelity. Amongst the Hindus there is a variety of very fine dramas of great antiquity on the story of Rhama.
There are three Rhamas mentioned in the Indian mythology, who, together with Krishna, the darling god of the Indian women, are described as youths of perfect beauty. The third Rhama is Krishna’s elder brother, and is considered as the eighth Avatar, invested with an emanation of his divine radiance. Like all the Avatars, Rhama is painted with gemmed Ethiopian or Parthian coronets ; with rays encircling his head, jewels in his ears, two necklaces, one straight and one pendant on his bosom, with dropping gems; garlands of well-disposed many-coloured flowers, or collars of pearls, hanging down below his waist ; loose mantles of golden tissue or dyed silk, embroidered on the hems with flowers, elegantly thrown over one shoulder, and folded like ribbands across the breast ; with bracelets, two on one arm and on each wrist. All the Avatars are naked to the waist, and uniformly with dark azure flesh, in allusion probably to the tint of that primordial fluid on which Narayan moved in the beginning of time ; but their skirts are bright yellow, the colour of the curious pericarpium in the centre of the water-lily.
RHAPSODI, Rhapsodists, in
Antiquity,
persons who made a business of singing pieces of HomePs poems. It has been said that the rhapsodi were clothed in red when they sung the Iliad, and in blue when they sung the Odyssey. They performed on the theatres, and sometimes strove for prizes in contests of poetry and singing. After the two antagonists had finished their parts, the two pieces or papers they were written in were soon joined together again, and hence the name, from gαwrω,
suo,
and α
∣
3jj,
canticum. 
But there seem to have been other rhapsodi of more antiquity than these people, wr ho composed heroic poems or songs in praise of heroes and great men, and sung their own compositions from town to town for a livelihood ; of which profession Homer himself is said to have been a member. See Homer.
RHAPSODOMANCY, an ancient kind of divination performed by pitching on a passage of a poet at hazard, and reckoning on it as a prediction of what was to come to pass. There were various ways of practising this rhapsodomancy. Sometimes they wrote several papers or sentences of a poet on so many pieces of wood, paper, or the like, shook them together in an urn, and drew out one, which was accounted the lot. Sometimes they cast dice on a table whereon verses were written, and that upon which the die lodged contained the prediction. A third manner was by opening a book, and pitching on some verse at first sight. This method they particularly called the
sortes Prœnestinœ ;
and afterwards, according to the poet, made use of
sortes Homerica, sortes Virgilianœ,
&c.
RHAPSODY, in
Antiquity,
a discourse in verse, sung or rehearsed by a rhapsodist. Others conceive rhapsody to signify a collection of verses, especially those of Homer,
which having been a long time dispersed in pieces and fragments, were at length by Pisistratus’s order digested into books called
rhapsodies,
from gα<rrω,
suo,
and ω⅛ιj,
canticum. 
Hence, amongst modems,
rhapsody
is also used for an assemblage of passages, thoughts, and authorities, raked together from divers authors, to compose some newτ piece.
RHEIMS, an arrondissement of the department of the Marne, in France, 692 square miles in extent. It comprehends ten cantons, divided into 181 communes, and in 1836 contained 123,919 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name. It stands in a pleasing district on the river Bisle. It is surrounded with walls, not for defence, but converted into agreeable promenades. It is a city of well-built and large houses, some open places, but in general of narrow streets, well paved. The chief object of attention is the fine Gothic cathedral, in which the kings of France during many generations were crowned. It is 450 feet in length, ninety-five in breadth, and IlO in height. The portico is beautiful, and the interior presents a magnificence in its architecture, which is so combined with simplicity as to produce a wonderful impression on the spectator. It suffered injury during the revolution, but the damages have in some degree been repaired. The palace of the archbishop and some other ecclesiastical buildings are very fine. This city has a lyceum, three hospitals, and 38,359 inhabitants, who carry on considerable manufactures of woollen goods of various kinds, and in shawls of mixed substances. It is also a place of commerce, and is the principal mart for champagne wine. Long. 3.56.3. E. Lat. 49. 15. 16. N.
RHEINBACH, a town of the Prussian government of Cologne, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over seventy square miles, and contains 23,500 inhabitants. The towr n is situated on the river Erft, is ill built, with 250 houses, and 1500 inhabitants.
RHEINBERG, a town of the Prussian government of Cleves, the capital of a circle of the same name, which extends over 210 square miles, comprehending nine cities and towns, and thirty-six villages, with 38,200 inhabitants. The town is situated on a brook about one mile from the Rhine, was once fortified, but its defences have been neglected. It contains 430 houses, with 2250 inhabitants, partly employed in making cloths, and partly in the fishery on the Rhine. Long. 6. 29. 26. E. Lat. 51. 33. 17. N.
RHETORES, amongst the Athenians, were ten in number, elected by lot to plead public causes in the senate-house or assembly. For every cause in which they were retained they received a drachm out of the public money. They were sometimes called Suwjyofoi, and their fee τ∙o ∑uwiχoj∕xev. No man was admitted to this office until he was forty years of age, though others say thirty. Valour in war, filial piety to parents, prudence in their affairs, frugality and temperance, were necessary qualifications for this office, and every candidate underwent an examination concerning these virtues previous to the election. Thc orators at Rome were not unlike the Athenian
rhetores.
RHETORIANS, a sect of heretics in Egyjlt, so denominated from Rhetorius, their leader. The distinguishing tenet of this heresiarch, as represented by Philastrius1 was, that he approved of all the heresies before him, and taught that they were all in the right.
The founder of modern philosophy describesι the subject
, of our present inquiry as being “ that science which we call Rhetoric or Art of Eloquence ; a science excellent, and excellently well laboured.” But Bacon’s praise of the science itself, and of its ancient cultivators, has been fair from commanding universal assent. The prejudice with which rhetorical studies are regarded by so many, has, it must be confessed, been fostered, if not generated, by the fault of some of its students and expositors. Rhetoricians, like teachers of the kindred science logic, have too often claimed for their art the possession of powers which do not belong to it: their systems of precepts have become most ponderous, and their pretensions most extravagant, in times when eloquence was sunk in the deepest decay ; and in the rhetorical writings of the lower empire and the dark ages, it seems to be implicitly assumed that every man who submits to learn and practise certain prescribed rules, will attain skill in speech and writing, as certainly as he would, by an industrious apprenticeship, acquire the mastery of a mechanical trade. Accordingly, in more than one period, and in none perhaps more decidedly than in our own, the very name of Rhetoric has been put under the ban of the empire of literature ; and the sentence has been justified by misrepresentations both of the purposes of the art, and of the works which result from it. Its rules have been described as a scheme of petty sophistical artifices, designed to aid in smuggling falsehood into the mind under the disguise of logical quibbles or oratorical ornaments ; and, the worst declamations of the worst declaimers being exhibited as adequate specimens, rhetorical composition has been dc-fined to be, that which possesses the forms of eloquence without its spirit. We hear truth, good taste, and eloquence, severally spoken of as the antitheses of rhetoric. Words, to use Mirabeau’s paradox, are things; and the subject which we are now to consider is not the only one, nor by any means the most important, in which infinite mischief has been done by the attaching of contemptible associations to terms of neutral meaning, and by the affixing of odious names to objects in themselves innocent or useful.
The truth is, that the uses of rhetoric, as well as of all the other arts or sciences which, in different departments, aim at the training of the human mind for exertions in which it is itself its own instrument, are principally negative. Neither in reasoning nor in oratory can any scheme of rules, logical or rhetorical, nor any study of models however profound, nor any practice however long and intelligent, enable the intellect to perform, even moderately well, a task for which it has an inherent incapacity ; and if excellence be the end in view, it will assuredly never be reached, either with the observance of rules or independently of them, unless genius be present to give the primary impulse, and to sustain the mind in its course. Logic, strictly speaking, does not teach us how to reason, but only how to avoid violations of those essential principles on which all reasoning is founded. In like manner, a legitimate system of rhetoric would teach, not what eloquence
is,
hut what it is
not;
it would disclaim all purpose of qualifying its students to compound an eloquent discourse hy rule, as a medicine is compounded after a prescription ; and it would occupy itself mainly in discovering, by the immediate study of the mind itself, and by critical examination of the works of genius, those guiding and universal law’s of human intellect which the student of eloquence
must not
disobey, if he wishes to attain, in any shape, the end which he pursues.
It must be that such principles exist : if we apprehend rightly what eloquence is, we may reasonably hope to discover at least some of them ; and even if we could discover them all,—which no sound thinker has ever yet pretended to do,—the speaker or writer wr ould still retain ample space for the exertion of his natural powers, which indeed would act with redoubled ease and vigour from his distinct knowledge of the limits of their domain. A chart does not teach the mariner how to navigate his vessel ; but it may fare hardly with him if he wants one in a narrow sea, with whose soundings he is imperfectly acquainted.
It is designed, in this paper, not to present a dissertation having any claim to be considered as a complete exposition of the subject in any of its sections, but simply to sketch in outline a plan of rhetorical studies, which the student may not find altogether useless as a clue when he attempts to master the details under the guidance of more ambitious works ; and it may be well to state at the outset the view which, in common with those who have thought most deeply on the matter, we entertain as to the means by which rhetoric is qualified to execute the very important task which it undertakes.
In the first place, then, we hold that the systematic view of the principles and rules of eloquence which rhetorical treatises usually offer, must peremptorily be embraced, as an essential part, in the studies of every one who would become really eloquent in speech or in writing. But this proposition must be understood with two cautions. First, in regard to many particulars indispensable towards the attainment of eloquence, every sound scheme of rhetorical precepts, abandoning all claim to primary discovery, contents itself with informing or reminding the student, that he must seek for knowledge elsewhere, from reflection on the phenomena of his own mind, from the best works in philosophy, and from an observation of the world and ol human nature. This is true, not merely as to the matter on which eloquence may employ itself, as to which, however, it is true universally ; but also as to most of the instruments which the art uses. Secondly, and more particularly, the real usefulness of rhetoric rests, not on its special rules, but on its general principles. As soon as a rule diverts the student’s attention from the principle, it for him ceases to be an aid, and becomes a positive hindrance. As soon as a treatise on rhetoric has impressed on the student’s mind distinctly and indelibly the great principles on which eloquence is founded, it has given him a talisman to guard him against all seductions into error, and even against the very mistakes which may be incrdcated in the book itself. Systems of rhetoric aid effectually in the attainment of eloquence, only so far as they teach the student to reflect on its principles.
But, further, we have called systematic rhetoric a part only of the studies leading towards eloquence. It is in truth a part which, by itself, is insufficient for the attainment of the end ; for we must add to it a critical acquaintance with the best models of literature, extending over as many of its departments as possible, but especially minute in that which the student chiefly designs to cultivate. What is here meant is a study of literary works, not for the knowledge which they contain, but as models ; a study directed towards an analysis of the mode in which they communicate knowledge, and of the conformity or disagreement of that mode with the laws of eloquence. Such a study may be said to bear towards the systematic portion of rhe-
toric a relation similar to that which, in physical science, an examination of the experiments made by the best philosophers bears towards the series of fundamental propositions in which the result of the experiments is embodied ; but the study of the experiments is incalculably more imperative in rhetoric than in natural science, from the incompleteness of the systematic result in the one case compared with that which is reached in the other. Treatises on eloquence which aim at expounding its principles, can seldom, in regard to the critical branch, do more than recommend its prosecution, or practically countenance it by incidental illustrations ; but it possesses such importance as to merit a more prominent place than it occupies in most systematic works on the subject.
Lastly, long practice must be added to all these studies before the end can even be approached. This requisite, however, a treatise on rhetoric can do little more than acknowledge and urge.
In pursuance of the opinions now expressed, these pages will endeavour to illustrate the subject in Three Divisions. The First will embrace general observations, intended to elicit the true principles of Eloquence, and to exhibit them in various points of view. From our strong impression as to the predominant importance of the general principles over the special rules, we shall be tempted to linger on this branch longer than may be approved by those who are attached to the minutiæ of the study ; and for the same reason we will not allow ourselves to be deterred by the fear of being charged with truisms, from stating considerations which seem calculated to lead us nearer to the goal. The Second Division will contain a brief summary of the most important principles which have been expounded in the best systems of rhetoric ; our principal guides, however, being the treatises of Aristotle, Dr Campbell, and Archbishop Whately. The Third Division will attempt to furnish the student with some aids towards his critical acquaintance with models.
I.
“ The word Eloquence,” says Campbell, adopting the ancient definitions, “ in its greatest latitude, denotes ‘ that art or talent by which a discourse is adapted to its end.’ All the ends of speaking are reducible to four; every speech being intended to enlighten the understanding, to please the imagination, to move the passions, or to influence the will.” The observations by which the same most acute wτiter immediately afterwards illustrates this his leading proposition, have much truth and great value. It is said, first, that “ any one discourse admits only one of these ends as tlle principal,” to which the others, so far as they are admissible at all, must be rendered conducive ; secondly, that “ each preceding species, in the order above exhibited, is preparatory to the subsequent ;” thirdly, that, in addressing tlle understanding, the speaker proposes either to explain to his hearers something unknown or not distinctly comprehended, or to prove something disbelieved or doubted ; so that, “ in the one case, his aim is their information, in the other their conviction ;” fourthly, that the address to the imagination is common to oratory with poctry, to which indeed it may be added, that the address to the passions must also be considered common to these two arts ; and, lastly, that the height of success in persuasion, the fourth end of the orator, is attained by effecting all these ends in the same discourse.
The analysis, to the extent to which it goes, is strictly accurate; and there is no just reason for refusing to predicate eloquence of every composition written or spoken, which fulfils its conditions. A simple and perspicuous narrative of facts,-—an unimpassioned but Gonvincingargument in proof of a controverted proposition in any department of
moral knowledge,—and a harangue which, convincing our understanding of what is, or seems to be, an important truth, summoning before our fancy vivid images of its consequences, and, kindling into flame the most powerful emotions of our nature, hurries us irresistibly to resolution and to action,—each of these exertions of intellect may, in its owm sphere, be fully deserving of the appellation of eloquent, because each may possess all the qualities which fit it for producing its end. But we shall still be in danger of misapprehending the real essence of eloquence, unless we state to ourselves substantively, and bring prominently to light, certain principles which the analysis involves, but which it passes over slightly.
It is rightly said, that each of the purposes of eloquence rises out of, and is necessarily founded on, those which precede it. In other words, the information or conviction of the understanding does, in the first place, lie at the root of all eloquence ; no composition is eloquent which does not effect this end. The state of mind which eloquence in all circumstances necessarily produces, is that of Belief. This is the fundamental proposition of the Rhetorical Art, and on it depends every well-founded rule which Rhetoric can deduce from its principles. We cannot have the proposition too strongly impressed on our minds ; and we may be assured that, the farther we diverge from its central point, the more we shall find ourselves removed from the ability to apprehend or reduce to practice the principles of Eloquent Composition.
The most common definition of Rhetoric describes it as the Art of Persuasion, a view derived from some of the ancient writers, whose instructions were almost wholly addressed to the case of public speaking in courts of law and popular assemblies. The definition, although it involves the true principle, is slightly faulty, both by excess and by defect. It says more than is true, in stating influence on the will as essential to eloquence ; and, on the other hand, it is apt to lead us awr ay from the principle, by tempting us to forget that, as is well said by Whately, the latest and one of the very ablest of the rhetorical writers, “ the conviction of the understanding is an essential part of persuasion.” If we must describe Rhetoric by a reference to its purpose, we shall perhaps incur the least risk of mistake by stating simply, that it aims, through the instrumentality of language, at the Production of Belief ; and we may perhaps venture to suggest, that this seems to be the true meaning, both of the introductory definition, and of the numerous incidental illustrations, which we find in a treatise at once the oldest and the best upon the subject, namely, the Rhetoric of Aristotle.
But since rhetoric, so far as it can be treated as a science (which to a certain extent it may), is called on to investigate principles which a writer or speaker must obey, in order to command belief, and since, too, its inquiries must embrace, not only the laws which regulate the conviction of the understanding, but also those which rule in the excitement of the imagination and the feelings,— it may be asked w hether its province does not in several quarters extend over ground belonging properly to otller departments of the mental philosophy. The answer to this question is twofold. There are certain principles which rhetoric does not establish for itself, but assumes as proved by common observation, and by the researches instituted in other branches of mental science ; but it also possesses principles which are peculiar to itself, and bring it into no collision even with those other walks of philosophy with which it may be suspected of being identical. By endeavouring at this stage to illustrate both of these propositions, we shall be enabled to bring into a strong light some considerations which might be overlooked if introduced incidentally an bcaring on specific rules.
First, then, Rhetoric is not a primary science. Its first principles are the phenomena and laws of the human mind, which it assumes as known to us from consciousness and observation, and as taught in rational systems of psychology, logic, and ethics. Aristotle, among the many instances in which he protested against errors that had arisen before his time, and have survived in spite of his remonstrances, was especially careful in determining the point at which rhetoric should commence its investigations. He lays it down as a fundamental principle, that the student of eloquence must prepare himself by an adequate acquaintance with three primary branches of knowledge which rhetoric cannot teach him ; the science of dialectics, the philosophy of human character and morals, and the philosophy of the passions. The Stagyrite’s requirement of skill in logic for one who desires to acquire skill in oratory, will seem unreasonable, not only to those who disdain the assistance of rules in every department of mental exertion, but to some who are disposed in certain matters to avail themselves of the aids which philosophy offers. If, however, we merely advise them to make themselves familiar, so far as they are not so already, with the principles and practice of reasoning, they cannot fairly consider the counsel as useless ; and if they admit the necessity of this study, we can only remind them further, that they must either be content to receive the syllogistic logic of Aristotle, as expounding justly the principles on which all reasoning is founded, or engage in that attempt at discovering a new system, which has baffled the human intellect for two thousand years. “ I cannot but consider him,” SaysWhately, “ as undertaking a task of unnecessary difficulty, who endeavours, without studying logic, to become a thoroughly good argumentative writer.” That Aristotle’s other demands on the student are well founded, will be more readily admitted, how far soever men may disagree as to the mode in which these branches of knowledge may be best acquired. For those who aim principally at applying their acquaintance with human nature to the purpose here in view, the world is doubtless a better school than the closet ofthe metaphysician ; especially as metaphysical writers have, almost without exception, devoted themselves chiefly to those sections of their science which are least closely allied to active life. But the philosopher’s attention is nevertheless directed to many important points which the unsystematic observer is in danger of overlooking ; and no one will find cause to regret the time bestowed on a course of metaphysical study, when he proceeds to the task of convincing and persuading his fellow-men. Unfortunately, however, the falsity and extravagance of several very famous systems of ethics, make caution indispensable in regard to such studies. A disciple of Hobbes, who, in addressing himself to any body of men by speech or writing, should frame all his appeals to their feelings, on the assumption that a degrading selfishness was the ruling passion in every breast, would, if he should be within the reach of conviction, discover the best practical refutation of his master’s dogmas in his own utter failure ; and one whose mind is thoroughly attuned to the low key of Paley’s philosophy, would probably, although his heresy in morals is less dangerous, find the application of his creed to the purposes of eloquence scarcely less ineffectual.
But, secondly, there are certain other principles of rhetoric, constituting indeed its essence, which, though they touch the frontier of other mental sciences, are yet sub. Stantially distinct and peculiar. The two subjects of inquiry with which the Philosophy of Eloquence comes most nearly into contact are, on the one hand, Logic, and, on the other, the Philosophy of Poetry. We shall be easily able to distinguish the points at which it branches off’ from both, if we keep.firmly in view the main proposition, that the purpose ofeloquence is the production of belief.
And, first, as to logic. In the first place, this science is conversant about the three discursive operations of the mind, apprehension, judgment, and reasoning, and takes no cognizance of any others. Secondly, logic is strictly “ a formal science.” In regard to reasoning, which is its principal object, it guarantees, to use the words of a very distinguished living metaphysician, “ neither the premises nor the conclusion, but merely the consequence of the latter from the former.” Of the truth or falsehood of the propositions which form the logician’s premises, his science teaches him absolutely nothing. Here, then, are two barriers, by both of which logic, omnipotent within its own domain, has that domain limited ; and beyond each of them lies a wide class of principles essentially affecting human belief. Let us even suppose that the human mind were biassed, in arriving at its conclusions, by no extra-logical operations of its owτ n. Even on this supposition, logical rules would not teach us how’ to produce belief of any given proposition. For though they would enable us to discover premises from which the required conclusion might be logically inferred, they possess no machinery which would qualify us for judging whether those premises would command the belief of those whom we wished to convince. Logic could neither inform us whether our premises are absolutely true, nor (which is here tlle real subject of inquiry) whether they are likely to seem true to others. Therefore, even for producing conviction by pure reasoning, the discovery of arguments is a task, and one of unquestionable importance, which logic cannot perform ; and if rhetoric, or any other science, undertakes to lay down principles facilitating its execution, we shall do well to examine, at least candidly, its capacity for fulfilling its professions.
But, in the next place, the mind of man is not so simply constituted, and his position in the system of nature has, as it were, fenced round his rational faculties with those powers which issue in action. The emotions pervade every operation of the mind, as the life-blood circulates through the body : within us and without, in the coηκ>real world and in the spiritual, in the past, the present, and the future, there is no object of thought which they do not touch, few, very few, which they do not colour and transmute. The argument which, if it could be presented pure to the reasoning faculties, would be fairly weighed, and calmly received or rejected, is sometimes disguised by passion, as completely as a landscape is by clouds, whose stormy piles we mistake for the distant mountains ; and in almost every case the conclusion or its proof, or both the one and the other, are seen through a medium more or less hazy, in which they present themselves as the objects of our bodily appetites, or our mental fears and desires, as instruments or hindrances of our affections, kind or malevolent, towards our fellow-men, or as falling under the jurisdiction of that supreme judge and monarch, the moral faculty, which sits enthroned in the inmost recesses of the heart, always able, when accurately informed, to confirm the decisions of reason, but, like other despots, often allowing its power to slumber, and often misled by faithless ministers. If we would command the belief of minds thus variously affected, it is manifest that other principles, besides those of logic, must aid us both in the discovery of arguments, and in their form and arrangement. 1. As to the discovery of arguments, we must always, both for protecting our own minds against error, and for qualifying us to deal with men of cold and unimaginative temper, aim at making ourselves masters of such premises as would probably command the belief of those on whose minds pure reasoning could fall directly, without being turned aside by intervening obstacles. We may always encounter some men whose minds, when directed to certain objects, are more or less nearly in this position. 2. In regard to the same department of our business of conviction, we must endeavour to perform the far more diffi
cult task, of discovering what propositions are likely to be i received as truths, by minds affected by all the incongruous j influences of imagination, passion, self-love, and ill-instruct-
∣
 ed conscience. The proof of a proposition from considera-
∣
 tiens of moral duty may appear weak to a man in whom some strong passion rebels against the principle ; but it may yet be possible for us to combat his scepticism by arguments of
∣
 other kinds, drawing their topics, perhaps, from self-love, l or from other passions to which we know him to be subject.
∣
 3. The necessity of watching the operations of the active powers of the mind, before we determine on the form and arrangement of arguments, may be sufficiently illustrated for the purpose here in view, by tracing the example last ; given for one step farther. Our proof of a proposition from ethical principles, although, in the case supposed, it would probably be met by incredulity or ridicule if stated at the outset, may gain a very different reception after we have cut a path for it by arguments addressed to the personal feelings of the auditor. When we have convinced him, that the truth on which we insist is conducive to his interest, and that, if it opposes one of his strongest passions, it is favourable to another, we have prepared his understanding for receiving attentively, and without prejudice, that argument from morality on which the proof of the proposition truly rests.
Those applications of the principles of eloquence which have been last before us, lead to the consideration of the second question that was proposed as to the connection of this branch of philosophy with others :—what is the relation which eloquence bears to poetry ? Both endeavour to arouse the imagination and the feelings ; the latter indeed always aiming at this effect, but the former too striving to attain it on those occasions when it puts forth all its strength : what, then, is it that distinguishes the one art from the other? The answer is not hard to find. Both arts, in attempting to excite the fancy and the feelings, are only using means, which each applies to its own peculiar end ; and the ends which the two propose to reach are essentially dissimilar. The dissertation on poetry in this work has correctly stated the end of that art to be “ the creation of intellectual pleasure we have here considered the end of eloquence to be “ the production of belief.” Poetry, like the other fine arts, appeals to the taste ; its compositions attain their proper and final result in the pleasure of contemplation ; and the truth or falsehood of their representations, and, in short, their agreement or disagreement with all the laws of tlle mental system, are qualities which enter into our conception of the essence of poetry only so far as they are subservient to that one peculiar result. The mathematician who complained that the Paradise Lost proved nothing, stated accurately the principle which separates poetry from eloquence and science.
Indeed the principle of distinction, when thus broadly enunciated, is something very like a palpable truism ; but it is one of those truths, unfortunately common in the affairs of real life as well as in the field of speculation, which are in theory universally acknowledged, and in practice very frequently forgotten : and no age can more pressingly need to he reminded of this truth than one like our own, in which what is called poetical prose has gained such general favour. We are in constant danger of being led astray by the fact, that eloquence, in addressing itself to cultivated minds (which is the only application of its powers that entitles it to be called an art, or to be investigated either philosophically or critically), does always include the gratification of taste as one of its purposes. We forget that this purpose is altogether a subordinate one, and that, if it ever comes in competition with the proper and principal purpose of the art, it ought to be unhesitatingly sacrificed. The authority of Aristotle will once more support our view, to which indeed his reasoning has conducted us. It is one of the earliest
and most valuable propositions in his treatise, that the arguments and other instruments tending to produce belief constitute the essence of eloquence, and that everything else is merely accessory.
Our review leads us, in the next place, to consider two objections, which are very often urged against the study of the subject. The first of these is chiefly directed against the practical application of eloquence, the second against the science or art which undertakes to expound its laws.
First, it is said that rhetoric is a dishonest art, which, so far as it is supposed to have any practical uses, is designed to qualify its students for inculcating falsehood as readily as truth. In answering this cavil, we must, if we would not altogether lose sight of the real principle, face boldly the difficulty which it suggests. We cheerfully admit that rhetoric directs the student to search, not for such propositions as are absolutely true, but merely for such as are likely to
seem
true to those whom he wishes to convince or persuade. But, in the first place, it does not follow that it directs him to search for falsehoods, or that these are the propositions which will best serve his purpose. The very reverse is the fact. The highest of all authorities on the subject lays it dowa most justly, as at once an essential principle of human nature, and a warning to the aspirant after eloquence, that mankind have a natural love and predisposition towards truth, and seldom fail in finding it out. Eloquence may doubtless be abused by being applied to wrong purposes ; but so may every science, mental and physical, which admits of any practical application at all, with the single exception of the science of morals, which, unlike all other branches of inquiry, has moral good for its object, and, if it has discovered the truths which it seeks, has thereby secured itself against all misuse of its investigations. Eloquence may be used for disseminating falsehood or heresy, as it may be for teaching truth and recommending genuine religion ; and the most important discoveries in physics may be turned to purposes of destruction, or made to promote the comfort and happiness of mankind. But, it must be once again repeated, he who attempts to apply this art, or any other which uses for its materials the principles of moral belief, to ends adverse to the cause of truth and morality, will speedily discover that he is misusing his instrument, by the imperfection of the results which he will usually produce. In the second place, however, rhetoric, assuming it to be capable of fulfilling the promise which it holds out, is not merely harmless, but positively beneficial, and is in fact necessary for the protection of truth and goodness. The argumentative writer or speaker, in the legitimate exercise of his art, addressing himself with the view of expounding or proving valuable truths to men in gene
ral, who possess but fragmentary knowledge, and are unaccustomed to discussions in scientific form, knows that he cannot convince the understanding, unless he at the same time engages the attention and conciliates the affections ; and also that he possesses no media of proof by which he can arouse the discursive faculties of those whom he addresses, except the knowledge and opinions which are already fixed in their minds. A felicitous image presented to the fancy, a gentle dealing with angry passions, an avoidance of collision with a rooted prejudice, may, without the slightest violation of truth or moral rectitude, open the minds of an assembly or a nation to receive with honest conviction a system of knowledge, religious, ethical, or political, which philosophical reasoning or uncompromising dogmatism might have striven for ages to force upon them, and striven in vain. But skill in rhetoric admits of another application. It may and will enable one to detect and expose sophistry and empty declamation. The art does unquestionably aid those who wish to mislead ; but it is on
that account the more necessary that an instrument so powerful should not be abandoned to dangerous hands. A mischievous boy in a steam-vessel may, by the simple pressure of his foot, cause an explosion that shall destroy the ship’s whole company ; but the danger should induce us, instead of undervaluing or discarding this wonderful combination of machinery, to study means which make it difficult or impossible to effect the mischief. This is really the result which such risks of abuse have produced in all the powerful applications of mechanical science ; and it is the result which ought to be produced in those far more important cases where the materials of the art are seated in tlle mind, and the evils which may be derived from them extend over the moral world.
The second objection frequently taken to the art of rhetoric is, that it is useless. Γhe objectors of this class are not by any means agreed as to the ground on which their allegation is to be defended ; but the only section of them whose argument is plausible enough to deserve refutation, are those who, while they admit that practice and the study of models are necessary for the production of eloquent compositions, deny the utility of attempts to investigate the principles of eloquence systematically and philosophically. In this shape the opinion is very far from being uncommon ; and, like all other common prejudices, it appears on analysis to contain a mixture of truth along with its errors. The discussion of it will bring us yet nearer to the point which, in all these general observations, it is our wish to reach.
In the first place, then, the objection, in whatever shape it is put, assumes the fact, of which also the objectors make much use in maintaining their argument, that the laws of eloquence are inherent in every intelligent mind, and are put in daily practice by those who are quite guiltless of rhetorical studies. Now this is the fact which lies at the root of all philosophical discussions on the subject, and of all rules which can be fairly deduced from the investigations. “ All men,” says Aristotle, “ in some sort practise both dialectics and rhetoric ; for all to a certain extent endeavour both to discover arguments and to maintain them, to accuse and to defend. Accordingly, of people in general, some, in the performance of these tasks, obey merely the impulses of their own minds, without having present to their thoughts any rule or general principle ; while others avail themselves of all the principles and precepts which they have been able to gather from experience and practice. Now, since the end which men thus speaking have in view, can be reached both in the one way and in the other, it is manifest that both classes must act upon the same principles, and that these, since they at the same time form legitimate subjects of speculation, and are capable of being put to practical uses, may be combined so as to form a system of rules which will be universally admitted to deserve the name of an art.” Those, if there are any such, who go so far as to maintain that the natural powers are sufficient for the production of eloquence without training of any sort, are contradicted by notorious and invariable facts. And those who maintain or conceive that practice and the study of models are in themselves sufficient aids, must be reminded that, so far as their Success exceeds that of the unlearned speaker, it is gained for them by this circumstance, that, whether they are conscious of it or not, they obey more closely than he does those principles which are common to them with him. If we suppose that the practised speaker who decries rhetoric is a perfect orator, he may be safely assured that no sound system of rhetoric which he may condescend to study, will expound to him a single principle which he has not already reduced to practice ; and even if we suppose him more moderately skilled in the art, he may be told with equal truth, that the system will not contradict any principle which he has used in practice, and found effectual for his end.
If, then, a student of eloquence, who declines to listen to a rhetorical exposition of the principles of his art, attempts to justify his refusal by maintaining, as an universal proposition, that, in every art, a systematic acquaintance with the principles is useless or injurious to one who wishes to practise it, his assertion, contradicted by common sense and immemorial experience, deserves no serious answer. But if he maintains that this particular art forms an exception to the general rule, and that in regard to it his proposition is true, he will find that the arguments by which his position may be most plausibly supported are two. He may allege, either, first, that the experience of modern Europe has shown rhetorical studies to be useless for the end at which they profess to aim, or, secondly, that rhetoric has failed in furnishing such a systematic view of principles as can be considered either complete or useful. These arguments lead us to consider a difference, to which we have not yet adverted, between the ancient and the modern methods of studying eloquence.
We have already fully admitted, or rather we have laid it formally down as an element in the view which we take of the subject treated in these pages, that the philosophical principles, or (which in certain respects is the same thing) the preceptive rules, of rhetoric, are not by themselves sufficient even for that negative purpose which, as we have also said, all schemes of mental training have most prominently in view. A critical examination of models in oratory, and the other branches of literature, is an indispensable part of the task which the rhetorical student is bound to perform. Now, of these two divisions, or modes of studying eloquence, the former is emphatically the ancient, and the latter the modem method.
Aristotle’s treatise is strictly and wholly didactic : his criticisms are short, infrequent, and closely limited to the immediate purpose of explaining his argument; and although he strenuously recommends the study of the historical and other branches of literature as a means of collecting the materials of eloquence, we cannot with certainty gather from any part of his work a distinct advice to the prosecution of these studies, as furnishing models of composition. From the temper of the great philosopher’s mind, it may not be rash to suspect that, even if he had been unfettered in his method of dealing with his subject, he might perhaps have placed a higher value than most men will do on the systematic precepts of the art, and have too much neglected its critical portion ; but there are certain reasons which deprive us of the right to infer positively that this was really his view of the matter. His main purpose was the formation of a system of precepts for spoken eloquence, written composition being adverted to but occasionally, and by way of digression ; but, down to his time, the only high specimens of spoken oratory were the harangues of his Attic contemporaries ; and for him, the tutor of Alexander, and the pensioner of Philip, the orations of Demosthenes (if the best of these were composed before the treatise on rhetoric, which is a doubtful point) were no safe themes of criticism or commendation After Aristotle’s time, it is true, criticism became more prominent in the manuals of eloquence : the best works which remain to us of some of its most renowned teachers, such as Dionysius of Halicarnassus, are purely critical ; and in the writings of some others, which are principally preceptive, by far the most valuable portions are critical analyses of literary works, examples of this latter sort being the spirited and refined dissertations of Cicero, the judicious and liberal remarks of Quinctilian, and the severe but often very instructive criticisms of the boy-philosopher Hermogenes. But although criticism grew as the models of excellence accumulated, the tendency to theorize and systematize kept equal pace with its increase ; and in the latest and worst days of ancient rhetoric, criticism, which, if not
so difficult as philosophical generalization, demands a wider union of powers and knowledge, died entirely away, leaving the rhetorical systems as bare of tlle highest kind of illustration as Aristotle’s work, while they were a thousand times more complicated in the rules which they expounded.
Since the revival of learning, men seem in general to have derived their opinions as to the real nature and value of the ancient rhetoric, not so much from the works of Aristotle, or even those of Cicero, Quinctilian, and Hermogenes, as from treatises like the curious rhetorical dialogue of Alcuin with Charlemagne, a production which, with its burdensome, wearisome, and useless subdivisions, its odd, impossible, and unpractical examples, and its confident claims to infallibility, is a fair specimen, but by no means one of the worst, of those treatises which fill the collection of the Rhetores Latini, and the separate volumes of such men as Theon, Aphthonius, and the other Greek rhetoricians of the declining ages. We have consequently, in modern times, run into the opposite extreme; and, as we have already admitted, the prevalent tendency has long been to deny that the systematic rules are of any use whatever. The writings ofa few very able men have been insufficient to stem the current, although the list of rhetorical w’riters includes Bacon in our own country, and Fenelon in France.
But we must return to the two arguments against rhetorical studies, from which we have diverged in order to collect materials for answering them ; and, first, as to the objection from the supposed experience of modern times. In the first place, it will surely be confessed that there is an antecedent presumption against the supposition that the study of principles is unnecessary ; and, in the next place, any appeal to the success of modern oratory or prose literature in general, in proof that certain methods are useless which the ancients practised and the moderns do not, would require to be accompanied by an assertion,—which, if we are competently informed, we shall scarcely venture to make,— that in excellence of composition, taken in its highest sense, modern oratory and prose literature are not inferior to those of the ancients. But, further, we must also recollect that the study of models is in itself a study of principles, if it be conducted with intelligence, or so as to serve any good purpose whatever ; for he who adopts this mode of study to the exclusion of the other, is just playing the part of a traveller, who, undertaking a journey on foot through a difficult country, begins hy throwing his map into the fire, and resolves to trust to the guidance of chance passengers. We are, indeed, strongly inclined to hold one doctrine, which, if it be sound, would compel us to believe that the immediate study of the principles is far more necessary in modern times than it ever could have been in the ancient world. We believe that, for the attainment of a certain degree of success, this study may be much more safely dispensed with by the public speaker than by the author who gives his thoughts to the world in books. The former is, in the delivery of his harangues, instituting per force a series of experiments, from which, doubtless at the expense of many a mortifying failure, he must, if he possesses natural powers capable of producing cloquence in any circumstances, at length learn, or approach to learning, both the principles of eloquence, and its most useful practical rules. The author almost wholly wants this aid. His experiments, if they are to be called so, are usually few, and he has but the most imperfect means of judging what has been their issue ; for the success or failure of a book is dependent on so many circumstances, that it can seldom enable the writer to determine how far it has been owing to his success or failure in the great end of composition. But, lastly on this head, a late writer, Whately, has thrown out a hint which has in it much truth as well as ingenuity. He remarks that, after all, the modern dis
avowal of rhetorical studies may not be strictly consistent with truth. The suspicion of rhetorical artifice, he says, creates such distrust that every one is eager to disclaim it, and none more so than those who have availed themselves of it most widely and successfully. The ancients were freed from the necessity of this venial duplicity by the peculiar nature of their education, in which, under the name of rhetorical training, were included all the branches of learning requisite for the accomplishment of a man qualified to shine in political life. The Greek rhetorician taught his pupil the principles of politics, legislation, and every department of general knowledge ; and the pupil, when he had taken his place in the nation as a public man, was called an orator 
(∕⅛rn
∣
l)
and not, as we should now call him, a statesman. No man required to conceal his having studied the subsidiary sciences ; or rather every one wished to have it believed that he was familiar with them ; and his skill in rhetoric proper escaped notice in the general muster. The dissimilar position of the ancients is further illustrated by a second consideration, which is commented on for a different purpose by another writer of high authority, namely, that the Greek orators seem always to have had in view the communication of an æsthetical pleasure to their hearers, as an end scarcely subordinate even to the principal one of moving their minds to belief and action. An assembly which did not listen to Demosthenes with the less admiration, nor with the less disposition to be convinced by his argument, for knowing that he had devoted months to the preparation of his speech, and who recognised in some of its most impassioned appeals whole paragraphs which they had heard him pronounce before, were not likely to be staggered by reflecting that the speaker had long studied oratory under Isocrates.
But the second objection, levelled against the preceptive section of rhetoric, asserts that every system of the kind is incomplete, and therefore useless. The allegation of incompleteness is perfectly true; but it does not warrant the inference. No rational inquirer into rhetorical principles has ever pretended to have fully explored all the regions of mind over which eloquence holds its empire ; indeed, in entering on such investigations, as far as they involve simply matters of fact and experience, he is encroaching on the province of other branches of the mental philosophy, and abandoning that of rhetoric, which, receiving its facts from without, busies itself properly in determining the relation which the facts bear to a certain end. Neither from ordinary and unscientific observation, nor from the systematic inquiries of philosophy, do we yet know nearly all that may be learned as to the principles of the mental economy ; and, moreover, when psychology and its kindred sciences shall have reached their Utmost development, they will still find their province to be surrounded on all sides by a darkness which created intellect cannot penetrate. But those who have studied the philosophy of mind most practically and most profoundly, are also those who can bear the most decided testimony to the fact, that the incompleteness of its results does not deprive it either of interest or usefulness. The same thing is even more palpably true of this particular branch of inquiry, in which every experiment is instituted with a direct view to a certain practical end.
The avowed incompleteness, however, not merely of all existing, but of all possible, rhetorical systems, not only forms no valid ground for denying their usefulness, but may suggest very strong positive arguments in their favour. Those rhetorical rules which are really sound and useful do not mark out, like guide-posts inscribed with the penalties of a turnpike statute, one fixed road in which they tell the student of eloquence that he must travel, although there are other roads which will equally well lead him to his journey’s end : the most important and certain
of them, indeed, are not even directions which indicate to him the best road in which to travel ; but they are peremptory warnings, set up at certain places to inform him, that the cross-roads which at these points diverge from the highway, will lead him quite astray if he shall be tempted to strike into them. Now, it so happens that rhetoric would completely attain this its purpose of protecting us against error, if, discarding all special rules, it were simply to hold up to view, at all points suspected of being tlle commencement of bewildering paths, a statement of its own fundamental and ruling principle, and of two or three of the most obvious corollaries wdlich the principle involves. If the student of eloquence has been enabled, no matter by what means, firmly to apprehend and retain these essential truths, he has made an acquisition which is more valuable than any other connected with his art.
To the apprehension of those truths we have here endeavoured to aid in leading him. The aim of all composition not poetical being the Production of Belief, the great task of the speaker or writer should be the study of the character of those whom he addresses, or, in other words, the study of human nature, in all its regions, if possible, but at any rate in those with whose peculiarities his purpose is most likely to bring him into collision. This study must be prosecuted both in the closet and in the world, by reflection as well as by study and observation. In those departments of it which bear reference to human nature in the abstract, the hints of some writers on eloquence may aid a little, and metaphysical studies greatly more ; but even in this field the investigation of the recluse will often be barren ; and for the infinitely more varied and interesting study of individual character, the aspirant after literary or oratorical fame must repair to the crowded scenes of active life. But the knowledge with which study so conducted will store and fortify the mind, must be applied by the mind, in its constant meditations, to the special purpose of enabling us to accommodate our discourse both to the intellect, the imagination, and the feelings, the temper and prejudices, the state and amount of knowledge, and, in short, to the whole character, of our readers or hearers. There are some minds endowed with vigorous understanding, active imagination, and deep and varied sensibilities, in which much of this knowledge seems to be almost instinctive ; the possessors of such minds are men of genius, and eloquent almost as soon as experience has enabled them to overcome preliminary and practical difficulties ; and it is only from minds thus naturally full and strong that eloquence of the highest class will ever issue. Even genius, however, is a light that too often leads astray ; and the highest genius has always been the most warm in its gratitude to philosophy for stretching out her hand to lead it back to truth and nature. But there are innumerable and endless degrees and kinds of intellect, all below the highest, all imperfectly fitted for the tasks of conviction and persuasion, all requiring aid from without, all capable of receiving and profiting by such aid, and all more or less deficient in a distinct apprehension of the true aim of eloquence. In eloquence, as in morality, every class of minds is liable in its own way to forget and abandon the right path. The man of strong intellect and firm will degenerates into dogmatism, and reasons with his fellow-men in the same spirit in which the Jews built the second temple, where every man worked with one hand, and with the other hand held a weapon. If, in the common intercourse of society, we refuse to humour the characters of those around us, we shall receive our reward in the loss of confidence and love ; if, when we reason with or endeavour to instruct them, we refuse to make a similar allowance for those principles in their minds on which we seek to operate, the result will be that we shall leave them careless, uninformed, and unconvinced.
On the other hand, the man of fancy and warm feelings soars into the fairy-land of poetry ; amidst clouds of imagery and tempests of passion his hearers catch but the faintest glimpse of the truth which he designed to unfold ; and a weighing of proofs or a comprehension of explanations are things altogether out of the question. The poet and the dogmatist are equally distant from genuine eloquence ; and both equally forget, that he wr ho wishes to convince others of a truth should aim principally at discovering, not in what aspect the assertion and its proofs present themselves to his own mind, but in what light they are likely to be view ed by those to whom he is about to communicate them.
II.
Rhetoric, though etymologically referring only to spoken eloquence, was, even by the ancients, considered as fairly and necessarily embracing written composition likewise ; and in modern times, in which the press discharges so many of the functions which the public speaker of old exercised in his own person, the extension is quite indispensable. In the widest acceptation, then, Rhetoric is the art of Composition in Prose. However, even in treatises far more detailed than the present, it has been found convenient to limit the subject to Argumentative Composition ; and accordingly this view will be taken in the illustrations now’ to be offered. One who has accurately studied the philosophy and practice of Rhetorical Argument, will have little to learn when he turns to other branches of composition.
It will be advisable to adopt, with only an immaterial deviation from the order, the division of the subject which is laid down in the treatise of Aristotle ; according to which the rules of Rhetoric will be treated in three sections ; the first embracing the principles on which Belief must be produced by rhetorical composition ; the second treating very briefly of the Disposition or Arrangement of the Parts of an argumentative discourse ; and the third entering on the examination of the principles of Style.
It is laid down by Aristotle, as the foundation of the rhetorical art, that the Belief which it is the purpose of elo-
3
uence to produce, flows, so far as it is produced by the iscourse, from one or another of three causes, and from no others. Either, first, the conclusion has been proved, or seems, to those to whom it is addressed, to have been proved, by arguments directly appealing to the understanding ; or, secondly, the discourse has created a bias in favour of the writer or speaker, which makes the conclusion be received on the authority of his assertion ; or, thirdly, the discourse has excited in tlle minds of the hearers or readers other feelings (besides those favourable to the speaker or writer), by which the understanding is in the same way biassed. These in their order will now engage our attention.
Under the first head we are invited to examine the principles which should direct us in the Discovery of Arguments, and in their Arrangement.
And, first, as to the Discovery of Arguments. For assisting the writer or speaker in this task, the ancient rhetoricians offered means of two kinds. The one was a Classification of Arguments into their different kinds, with illustrative hints as to the proper uses of each. The second was the amassing of a collection of Topics or Common-places, of which some were arguments that admitted of being applied in any question of moral reasoning ; w, hile others, although not so widely available, were so for all questions embraced under the particular department of oratory in which they were classed.
In modem times the use of common-places has been universally decried, as a mere device for qualifying a man to speak or write fluently on subjects of which he is utterly ignorant ; and if all objections to the art were as well founded as this, it would be truly a waste of time to study it. The invention was well suited for enabling a subtile and flowery declaimer, like the sophist Gorgias1 to justify his famous boast, that he could speak extempore on any given question ; but the systematic use of these storehouses of universal topics was utterly preposterous in the business of real life. “ Such discourse,” says Blair, with great truth, “ could be no other than trivial. What is truly solid and persuasive must be drawn
ex visceribus causœ,
from a thorough knowledge of the subject, and profound meditation on it. They who would direct students of oratory to any other sources of argumentation, only delude them ; and, by attempting to render rhetoric too perfect an art, they render it in truth a trifling and childish study.” If we thought the ancient Topics really worthy of defence, we would not be deterred from defending them, either by this grave reasoning, or by the recollection of Corporal Trim’s extemporaneous oration on the white bear ; but the rebuke of the critic, and the ridicule of the wit, are both well deserved. And yet in this, as in most other errors, we detect merely the misapplication of a truth. For the invention of the Topics is founded on a consideration of the common principles and relations of matters of reasoning in general, and of those matters which are embraced under each particular division of knowledge ; and it is manifest that reflection on such general truths as these, although it should not be applied as those ancient sophists applied it, is in itself not merely an unobjectionable, but a positively useful and necessary duty, for those who wish either to write well or to think rightly. Even as to the practical use of commonplaces, no one w’ho has been accustomed to hear practised public speakers can have failed to remark, that most of them fall more or less into the repetition of set phrases and ideas, which are as truly common-places as if they had been learned by rote from Boethius or Fortunatianus : and in the oratory of the bar, where extemporaneous fluency is indispensable, the systematic use of common-places is to some extent both advantageous and ordinary. For written compositions common-places are unnecessary and absurd ; and we are not much encouraged to their adoption by the example of Cicero, who, having sent to Atticus a treatise prefaced by an eloquent introduction, was reminded by his friend that he had already used the passage as the proœmium of another work.
Knowledge of the subject of the composition, and meditation on its facts and principles, must, as our authority just cited has told us, be substituted for treasuries of commonplaces ; and no one has insisted on the necessity of such studies more strenuously than Aristotle, who, although he wrote with the view of aiding public speakers, and therefore, both in his Rhetoric and his Topics, collected those common-places which he considered most useful, yet broadly and repeatedly lays down the doctrine of their total insufficiency as the principal source of the orator’s materials. One chapter of the Rhetoric contains as much practical sense on this subject as might satisfy the most determined of modern utilitarians ; and we cannot do better than dismiss the topics by stating its substance, which, although addressed immediately to the case of public speaking, possesses much value even with regard to purely literary compositions. It has been observed, says he, that, for plebeian assemblies, unlearned men are by far the most persuasive orators. And why is this ? Simply because they state the particular facts from which they themselves have drawn their inferences, and which the audience know and are qualified to comprehend ; while instructed men, addressing the same hearers, puzzle and repel them by enunciating universal truths. This
remark is followed by four advices to the orator. First, he is warmly urged to the anxious study of his subject, as in every view essential to his success. Secondly, the advice is enforced by reminding him, that the more facts he knows as to the matter to be handled, the better chance has he
of 
discovering among them some argument which will prove convincing. Thirdly, he is warned that the general rule of oratory which directs the speaker to study and condescend to the characters of his hearers, must be specially applied, so far as his means of knowledge allow him, to the particular persons whom he happens to address. Fourthly, he is cautioned not to shun the statement of common and well-known facts, but rather to consider these as the great magazine of his arguments.
The second sort of aid which the ancient rhetoricians held out for the Discovery of Arguments, namely, that which results from a Classification of their Kinds, is as truly sound and valuable as the other sort is the reverse. It has, however, met with little more favour in the eyes of the moderns ; but in our own times, one of the ablest writers on rhetoric has adopted Aristotle’s division of arguments, analysing it satisfactorily, and increasing its utility by several excellent supplements of his own. All that follows on this part of the subject may be considered as either suggested by Aristotle and Whately, or in substance directly borrowed from them, except a few incidental remarks and illustrations.
It must be premised, however, that in every thing to be said on this head, reference is made solely to moral truths, as the conclusions sought to be established in argument. All reasoning is of course ultimately founded on admitted truths, and such reasoning as will serve the orator’s purpose must be founded on truths admitted by those whom he addresses. Necessary truths, constituting the first principles of the mathematical sciences, can scarcely ever enter into rhetorical consideration in any shape, and may be safely left out of view altogether. Contingent truths, composing the other great class of ultimate principles, and embracing truths moral and physical, compose the great quarry of materials for human thought and reasoning; the latter class, however, occupying, in most applications of rhetorical principles, a place comparatively subordinate.
With regard to the Division of Arguments, then, it is to be observed, in the first place, that the division which aids the rhetorical student, is one neither founded on differences in the mode of stating them (as syllogistic, Unsyllogis-tic, or the like), nor on differences in their subject (as moral or necessary), nor on differences in the purpose of using them (as direct or indirect, probative or reftιtative arguments). That which is here useful is a division of arguments
as such.
Upon this principle Aristotle may be understood as dividing all arguments in moral reasoning into three kinds ; what he calls the
ιix⅛s
(literally, Proof of Probability) ; the Sign or Symptom
(βι
∣
μtiw)
; and the Example 
foαfobnγpα).
Whately first divides all arguments into Two Classes, the first consisting of “ such as might have been employed to
account for
the fact or principle maintained, supposing its truth granted ;” the second, of “ such as could
not
be so employed.” The former class he considers to be the ι∕'xorα of Aristotle, and terms them Arguments
a priori,
or Arguments from Antecedent Probability. Those of the second class he considers as all referable to Aristotle’s two classes of Signs and Examples.
The f∕xJ{, or Argument
a priori,
is an argument from cause to effect, these words being understood in the popular and ordinary sense. The conviction which it bears evidently admits of innumerable degrees of strength, from the faintest shadow of likelihood to complete moral certainty. The shades of distinction cannot be marked by appropriate terms, either in the language of common life or in that of
philosophy ; both because they run into each other imperceptibly at every point of the progression, and because the same proof, perhaps, does not appear to any two minds as involving exactly the same strength of evidence. Nevertheless there are in popular language some distinguishing words, of which rhetoric may advantageously avail itself. The two most ordinary and useful of these are, Plausibility and Probability, both of them wide words, but each marked in common use by its own essential and distinctive character. Probability, indeed, in the philosophical and proper sense, embraces all the degrees of moral evidence ; but in the popular meaning here adverted to, it imports a degree of evidence higher than that of plausibility. Plausibility is a faint degree of likelihood, whose essence Campbell, quite accurately as it should seem, has analysed thus. The hearer considers an argument as plausible which does not contradict his own experience, or that system of general truths which, more or less extensive in different minds, has been collected by every mind from particular facts remembered. If the argument goes farther than this point, it loses the character of plausibility, and acquires a higher rank, passing, in ordinary language, into the class of probabilities ; if it falls short, by contradicting any of our habitual conclusions, it is less than plausible, and utterly worthless towards effecting conviction. The only objection to the term plausibility arises from this ; that, on account of ordinary associations, it suggests to most minds an unfavourable impression, which does not necessarily or properly belong to the species of evidence it is here used to designate ; for, although a plausible proof must never be taken for more than it is worth, it may often do infinite service in preparing the way for others more convincing. Campbell has proposed to substitute for it the word verisimilitude, but his advice has not been followed. It has been observed by the same writer, that this quality of a non-contra-diction of experience, is the essential condition of what in poetical invention is called truth to nature. We pronounce the characters in a poem to be well sustained if the acts ascribed to them are similar to those which we have seen such men perform in such circumstances ; and as the poet undertakes to prove nothing, we rest in the intellectual pleasure which the invention affords us. If a similar picture of character in action is laid before us, as a step towards convincing us that a certain act has really been done, we try the representation by the former test ; but then, if the argument holds good to the extent to which it professes to go, we retain our conviction of this faint antecedent probability, as an element to aid us in judging of the sufficiency of other proofs, if such shall afterwards he adduced. Arguments
a priori
which deserve the name of probable, go farther than this, and rise gradually till they operate complete conviction. “ As far as any cause, popularly speaking, has a tendency to produce a certain effect, so far its existence is an argument for that of the effect. If the cause be fully
sufficient,
and no
impediments
intervene, the effect in question follows certainly ; and the nearer we approach to this, the stronger the argument.”
The class of Signs forms a very large numerical proportion of our materials in argumentative composition. It is satisfactorily analysed by AVhately, whom we here follow closely in all our observations on it, venturing only on one point a silent dissent. “ As far as any circumstance is what may be called a
condition
of the existence of a certain effect or phenomenon, so far it may be inferred from the existence of that effect ; if it be a condition absolutely essential, the argument is of course demonstrative ; and the probability is the stronger in proportion as we approach to that case. Of this kind are the following arguments. A man is suspected as the perpetrator of a murder, from the circumstance of his clothes being bloody ; the murder being considered as, in a certain degree, a probable
condition
of that appearance; that is, it is presumed that his clothes would not 
otherwise
have been bloody. Again, from the appearance of ice, we infer decidedly the existence of a temperature below the freezing point ; that temperature being an essential
condition
of the crystallization of water.”
Arguments which infer effect from cause having been ranked as our first branch, and examples, the third branch, being, as we shall immediately discover, incapable by themselves of leading to absolute moral conviction,—thc class of signs must include both those proofs which from an admitted phenomenon infer its cause, and those which from the same datum infer a condition which is not the cause. And, first, as to those arguments which prove the existence of causes by that of their effects, it must be specially observed, that the cause “ is never so proved
so far forth as
it is a 
cause,
but so far forth as it is a
condition,
or necessary circumstance.” This is far from being so shadowy a distinction as might be supposed ; it enters radically into the mode in which the mind is affected by the different methods of using causes and effects to prove each other. The proposition as it is here maintained, without involving, or tempting us to institute, any inroad into the debateable land of the philosophy of causation, is simply this : that my conviction of the existence of a fact, from my knowledge of another fact which is its effect, is exactly the same kind of conviction as I should derive of the same truth from my knowledge of any fact which was not an effect, but a simple condition, or other concomitant ; any difference in the strength of evidence in particular cases depends solely on the circumstances, and, as these vary, the one kind of proof may now be the stronger, and now the other. From the fact that Moscow was burned in the month of September 1812, we infer the existence of the city in the preceding month, because that previous existence, although no cause of the conflagration, in any sense of the word, is a condition, but for which the catastrophe could not have taken place ; and as the previous existence is a necessary condition, the conviction which the inference gives amounts to complete moral certainty ; but, from the same fact, as it is now stated, we can draw, as to the causes of it, no inferences whatever that amount to more than the weakest of all plausibilities, being just an enumeration of causes, by any of which it is possible the event may have been produced, though, with regard to most of them, we cannot pronounce any one to be more probable than the rest. On the other hand, if, when we have perused the writings of an author, our feelings and our critical judgment agree in declaring them to possess high and genuine eloquence, we infer at once the genius of the writer (the cause, or one of the concurring causes, of the excellence), and our inference is one of positive certainty, because we know genius to be a necessary condition, without which the work could not have possessed the merit it does : while, in the same case, on this naked enunciation of it, our inferences as to many of those conditions of the excellence, which are not in any sense causes, must be founded on plausibilities as weak as those described under the last example.
Of Signs, then, many are not causes. It is needless to illustrate this species of signs further by individual examples ; but it is important to observe, that some general classes of arguments fall under this second division
of
signs. Of this sort is the Argument from Testimony, to which, if we were to embrace in our view any besides moral truths, we should have to add the argument from Calculation of Chances, on which so much rests in tlle science of natural theology. Both of these arguments are signs from which we infer conditions that are not causes. The argument from testimony has been thus analysed. “ The premise is the existence of the testimony ; the conclusion, the truth of what is attested ; which is considered as a
condition
of the testimony having been given ; since it is evident, that so far only as this is allowed (i. e. so far only as it is allowed that the testimony would not have been given had it not been true)
can this argument have any force.” Thc testimony of the inspired writers is before us, declaring the truth of the Bible history ; we believe in the truth thus testified, because,— assuming that we have examined the antecedent steps of the argument, and have reached the point at which the argument from testimony comes in unmixed,—we believe the witnesses, or, in other words, we are convinced that, but for the truth of their testimony (its condition), it would not have been given. On this head we must content ourselves with simply urging the study of one of the most deeply important inquiries connected with tlle argument, namely, the genuine test of concurrent testimonies. The subject is ably treated both by Campbell and Whately, and the former writer thus states the principle. “ In a number of concurrent testimonies (in cases wherein there could have been no previous concert), there is a probability
distinct
from that which may be termed the sum of the probabilities resulting from the testimonies of the witnesses,—a probability which would remain, even though the witnesses were of such a character as to merit no faith at all. This probability arises purely
from the concurrence itself.
That such a concurrence should spring from chance, is as one to infinitude ; that is, in othcr words, morally impossible. If, therefore, concert be excluded, there remains no other supposition but the reality of the fact.”
We now pass to the third and last kind of Arguments, those from Example, which Whately analyses thus. In all the arguments designated by this name, “ we consider one or more
hnοwn
individual objects, or instances of a certain class, as fair
specimens,
in respect of some point or other, of that class; and consequently draw an inference from them respecting either the whole class, or other
less known 
individuals of it. In arguments of this kind, then, it will be found, that, universally, we assume as a major premise, that what is true (in regard to the point in question) of the individual or individuals which we bring forward and appeal to, is true of the whole class to which they belong : the minor premise next asserts something of that individual ; and the same is then inferred respecting the whole class ; whether we stop at that general conclusion, or descend from thence to another unknowm individual ; in which last case, which is the most usually called the argument from example, we generally omit, for the sake of brevity, the intermediate step, and pass at once, in the expression of the arguments, from the known to the unknown individual.” These principles apply not only to the common argument from Example, but to those from Induction, Experience, Analogy, and the like.
The easiest way of discovering the real force of this class of arguments for direct conviction, is (for those at least who are not wilfully resolved on creating difficulties for themselves) to examine its relation to the principles of logic. Both the Argument from Antecedent Probability and the Argument from Signs are strictly logical ; or, in other words, they can be so stated that their form will of itself show whether the conclusion is legitimate or not ; for, in order to reduce arguments of these kinds to formal syllogisms, we have only to restore the premise suppressed in ordinary discourse, and to limit in such a way the expression of both premises, that the degree of probability may distinctly appear in each, and may thence pass regularly into the conclusion. If the premises are certain, the conclusion will be so likewise ; if that element is wanting, the conclusion will only reach one or another of the infinite degrees of probability. Now, on the other hand, the Argument from Example, in all its varied shapes, is always one which will not stand the test of transformation into a logical shape. We may comprehend this most readily in the case of a rhetorical Induction, which, assuming Whately’s analysis as our guide, is an argument stopping short at the general conclusion from the premises, without going on to the last step, which infers as to the unknown individual. The process thus performed corresponds with wτ hat most logicians call an Imperfect Induction, which is truly no logical induction at all, but merely something wearing the appearance of it-The logical induction (to borrow again from a high metaphysical authority already cited) is governed by the rule, “ That what belongs (or does not belong) to
all
the constituent parts, belongs (or does not belong) to the constituted whole.” The imperfect or rhetorical induction assumes, that what belongs (or does not belong) to
some
of the constituent parts, belongs (or does not belong) to the constituted whole. This conclusion may or may not be true in the particular case, but it is always illogical.
There is a pressing reason for urging the importance of this view of the subject. In matters of moral reasoning, the argument from example is oftener misused than any-otller, and is altogether a very dangerous one in unskilful hands, the mischief sometimes falling on him who uses it, and sometimes on those to whom it is addressed. We are apt to be widely misled by the analogies of physical science, which give the name of induction to arguments in which an inference is drawn respecting a whole class from experiments on a few individuals, or even from one solitary experiment. If this experiment has been cautiously and un-objectionably made, so as to insure the essential point, that the individual is truly an adequate specimen of tlle class, the inference is sound and the induction valid. The process of reasoning, in short, sets out from a number of silent assumptions, and it is worthless if any one of these has been unwarranted. The history of the material sciences abounds with instances of the most grievous errors which have arisen from such assumptions of false data ; and this notwithstanding the facilities generally existing there for decisive experiments, by which the philosopher may place the subjects of his inquiries almost in any circumstances he will. In moral science we can scarcely ever experiment at all : we are confined to the task of watching the phenomena which the course of nature evolves, and of drawing our conclusions from facts as to which we are often exceedingly in doubt whether we may not have misapprehended their real nature and causes. “ The
experimentum crucis’’
says Playfair, in his Preliminary Dissertation to this work, “ is of such weight in matters of induction, that in all those branches of science where it cannot easily be resorted to (the circumstances of an experiment being out of our power, and incapable of being varied at pleasure), there is often a great
want of conclusive evidence.......Men deceive themselves
continually, and think they are reasoning from fact and experience, when in reality they are only reasoning from a mixture of truth and falsehood.” I learn from a few experiments that certain acids act on certain other bodies as solvents ; and the inferences are correct, not because they are logically drawn, but because all the assumptions on which they proceed have been tested by observation, and discovered to be well founded. Afterwards, turning to subjects of moral reasoning, I infer that all political revolutions are accompanied by wars and bloodshed, because I know that such evils attended the French Revolution of the eighteenth century, and that which took place in England in the first half of the seventeenth. The conclusion, as every one will tell me, is false ; but it is also logically inconsequent ; for the reasoning has silently assumed as true an infinite number of principles, all of which are essential to its validity, and many of which are utterly destitute of truth and probability.
The principles to which it has been here attempted to invite the student’s notice, are convincingly illustrated by Campbell, in his analysis of arguments from experience. The evidence of Analogy, as the same writer observes, “ is but a more indirect experience, founded on some remote similitude ;” and its force is always small, requiring indeed
a very unusual accumulation of comparisons before it can be relied on for any further purpose in argument than that which it has often served so well, namely, the repelling of captious refutations. In this kind of argument, quite as strictly as in any other instance of example, the things compared are assumed, in regard to the point of comparison, to belong to the same genus ; but there is evidently here a still greater risk than that which prevails in other reasonings of the same class, of either over-estimating or underestimating the weight of the evidence. The generic and specific names in common use alternately involve us in mistakes and help to extricate us from them. All of these are accurate for their own purposes ; but the purpose for which we use the example may, though quite legitimate, be extremely different from that which has dictated the common divisions. If, taking any number of men, who form a class in respect of social or civil relations,—a nation, a civic community, or even a large household,—we discover a certain physical peculiarity in one individual, and thence, without examination, infer it of another,—we are arguing, not from similarity, but from one of the remotest and most worthless of all analogies ; an analogy founded, not on any of those qualities of the individuals which came into view in their classification, but on one which merely happens to belong to one of them, and possibly or probably may not be found in any other, being, in short, what logicians would call an inseparable accident. On the other hand, direct and close similarities may be continually discovered between individuals which have in ordinary language no common name, and which could not be classed together for any of the practical purposes of life. Amidst the countless variety of natures and ends which divides the universe into such an interminable number of classes, genera, and species, all the individuals arc united by at least one common relation, that which the created bear to the Creator ; and when we endeavour to contemplate the world in its position towards God, we discover near and essential resemblances between the highest sentient beings and the most insignificant atoms of matter,—between the spirit of the archangel and the trodden grain of sand.
In estimating the force of Arguments from Example, our great task should always be, to discover the principle of the division which the reasoning assumes. Ifwe clearly apprehend the principle, and keep it steadily in view, we shall be able to steer safely through all the perplexities of individual cases. When the alleged point of similarity makes up the whole essence of the genus, the pioof, supposing the genus really to exist, is morally certain : when it appears on analysis to be only a separable accident of an individual, the proof is a worthless analogy. Between these two extreme points lies the wide channel through whose shoals the principle will always be able to pilot us.
ln regard to the Comparative Efficiency and the Proper Order of the several kinds of arguments, as indeed in regard to every other point essential to the rhetorical art, Aristotle will furnish us with the germ of all the principles, and with many of their elucidations; but Whately’s work is extremely valuable in this section, and will aid us scarcely less than it has aided us in the inquiry which w, e have just left. All that is most important on this subject may be comDrehended under the answers to three questions.
First, what is the Comparative Efficiency of the several sorts of arguments, considered with reference to the nature of the conclusions sought to be established by them ? Our guide answers as follows. “ Matters of opinion, as they are callcd (that is, where we are not said properly to know, but to judge), are established chiefly by Antecedent Probability (arguments of the first class, from cause to effect), though tlιe Testimony of wise men is also admissible ; past
facts, chiefly by Signs of various kinds (that term, it must be remembered, including Testimony); and future events, by Antecedent Probabilities and Examples.” Cases may often occur which form exceptions to these principles ; but reflection will easily convince every one that the outline of them here given is substantially accurate ; and any doubts which may arise on an abstract consideration of the question may be certainly removed by an examination of the most, convincing argumentative compositions. In few instances where argument is applied to practical uses, does any of the several sorts of conclusions constitute the whole of the end which the discourse proposes ; but, in every discourse, one or another of the kinds holds the most prominent place. Compositions chiefly designed for instruction or exhortation, such as ethical and most religious discourses, being principally conversant about conclusions of the first class, appeal mainly to the argument from cause to effect, strengthening this argument by authorities fairly and judiciously selected, and also making frequent use of examples, seldomer however as proofs than as illustrations, which are not introduced for the purpose of proving anything, but merely in order to place imperfectly-apprehended propositions in a stronger light. Judicial oratory, when employed on those questions which fall within the province of juries, has mainly reference to the second class of conclusions, so that signs compose the chief weapons of the legal speaker’s armoury. Harangues addressed to deliberative assemblies embrace the whole field of conclusions, but in most cases are chiefly directed tow ards those of the third class.
Secondly, what is the Comparative Efficiency of the several sorts of argument, considered with reference to our position towards the party whom we desire to convince ? Which sort is best calculated for direct Conviction ? and which for Refutation ? We again borrow an answer. “ It should be considered whether the principal object of the discourse be, to give
satisfaction to a candid mind
and convey
instruction
to those who are ready to receive it, or to
compel the assent or silence the. objections
of an opponent. The former of these purposes is in general principally to be accomplished by the former of those two great classes into which arguments were divided (viz. by those from cause to effect), the other by the latter. To whatever class, however, the arguments we resort to may belong, the general tenor of the reasoning will in many respects be affected by the present consideration. The distinction in question is nevertheless in general little attended to. It is usual to call an argument simply
strong
or
weak,
without reference to the purpose for which it was designed ; whereas the arguments which afford the most
satisfaction
to a candid mind, are often such as would have less weight in
controversy 
than many others, which, again, would he less suitable for the former purpose. For example ; the internal evidence of Christianity in general proves the most satisfactory to a believer’s mind, but is not that which makes the most show in the refutation of infidels. The arguments from analogy, on the other hand, which are the most
unanswerable,
are not so pleasing and consolatory.”
Thirdly, where we are in possession of arguments of all the kinds, all bearing on the conclusion which we wish to reach, what Arrangement of these is most effectual for producing conviction ? This question is one of the most important in rhetoric : indeed there is scarcely any other which goes so closely to the foundation of all eloquence. A just Arrangement of Arguments is indispensable towards success in conviction or persuasion ; and the leading principles of eloquence carry us by a very short journey to general rules on the subject, which may be considered as infallible. Aristotle has not enlarged on this point further than to press the necessity
of
using probative examples in the very last place ; but Whately has very justly observed that the principle should be extended much more widely. The
three kinds of argument,—supposing that in the particular case each is accessible, applicable, and necessary,—should be used in the order in which they were explained in preceding paragraphs ; the Argument from Antecedent Probabilities coming first, that from Signs second, and that from Examples last of all. If we violate the principle of this nde, we cripple every branch of our proof, as we may readily convince ourselves by trying the experiment on any case in which all the classes of argument must have place. Let us take the instance of a judicial address, intended to convince a jury that a certain man has committed a murder, supposing also the state of the proof to be such that the speaker rightly considers it necessary to use all the three kinds of argument ; and let us adduce the arguments in the order opposite to that which the rule suggests. By commencing with analogical arguments, or other proofs from example, we instantly prepossess our hearers against the conclusion which we wish to establish. All men feel, more or less, the weakness of this sort of proof when taken by itself, whether they clearly perceive the cause of the weakness or not ; and the defect will strike them forcibly and painfully in a case like that supposed, in which they are naturally reluctant to come to the conclusion which is urged on them : a single example is in such a place even worse than worthless ; accumulated examples perplex the mind, and excite it to an effort of memory which withdraws it from its proper task ; and, lastly, the argument, if adduced at this stage, is a building reared without a foundation ; for, as we have proved no circumstances of the special fact, our hearers have no materials for determining whether our analogy holds or not. Let us next proceed to the argument from signs : we still want something. For, even although we had been able to convince our hearers by the first branch of our argument, that our allegation has in it nothing which common experience has shown to be impossible, or very highly improbable, we have as yet not advanced a single step towards proving
a priori,
that the fact is positively likely to be true, and our audience are still indisposed to believe that it is so. On the supposition made, the proof from signs is stated as in itself not conclusive (for, if it were so, there would be no use for either of the other two kinds of proof) ; and, the case being so,—the fact being, by its accompanying circumstances, made more or less probable, but not certain, and nothing having been established which, like a strong motive, or such probable cause, would lead our hearers to anticipate the fact as likely, before they become acquainted with the corroborating symptoms,—we shall still have failed in gaining our end, and perhaps have come little nearer to it than the point at which we stood in the beginning. In order to complete our evidence, we must, therefore, proceed to the third series of arguments, tending to establish antecedent probability, which now come forward with every possible disadvantage. Our hearers have to apply the argument to the preceding facts, by a toilsome exertion of memory, which prevents the discursive faculties from acting freely, and, if the proof is complicated, may, after all, be completely unsuccessful ; or, if we endeavour to remove this risk, we must do so by a recapitulation, which will be wearisome, inefficient, and in itself an adequate reason for believing that our arrangement has been radically wrong. Let us reverse the arrangement, and everything will find quick and easy access to the mind. We first establish that our conclusion has antecedent presumptions in its favour, and the hearers are thus prepared for receiving with attention, candour, and even prepossession, all specific proofs in support of it. We next adduce those concurrent circumstances which we maintain would not have happened had not the fact taken place which we wish to prove. And, lastly’, after we have conducted thus far those whom we address, examples or analogies complete the chain of proba
bilities. “ After the other proofs have been adduced,” says Aristotle, “ a single example comes in with as much force as the testimony of a single honest witness.” The application of the same principles to the refutation of an address like that now analysed, is too obvious to require illustration.
In any treatise which should aim at following out the principles of rhetoric to their detailed consequences (a design far beyond the limits of these pages), it would be of the highest advantage to devote a separate section to a systematic consideration of the most usual Rhetorical Fallacies. Under this head would be analysed, not only those artifices by which falsehood may in argument be most easily made to pass current for truth, but also those others, by means of which conclusions may be represented as fallacies without really being so. It is not more important to expose the foundations of real fallacies, than to exhibit the unsoundness of those objections which represent as fallacies arguments truly sound. Although this double task belongs, in most of its applications, to logical science, there are many cases in which it is from the principles of rhetoric, not from those of dialectics, that the refutation of the error must be drawn. From Aristotle’s two admirable chapters on Fallacies, and cn the Refutation of Arguments and of Objections, only one observation shall here be cited, on account of the practical importance of the truth which it contains. Wllere, remarks the philosopher, the aim of an argument is merely to establish a probability, contrary facts may always be truly alleged. But the existence of such facts does not prove the argument to be fallacious ; for a probability is not disproved till we have proved that the fact does usually happen contrariwise. The cavil which this remark exposes, lies at the root of very much of the sophistry which has been put in use against truth, both in religion and in politics.
Our next subject of inquiry is Aristotle’s Second Rhetorical ground of Belief; namely, that which arises from the favourable impression created by the discourse as to the Character of the Writer or Speaker. The impression here meant is one arising wholly from the discourse ; for, so far as it is produced by previous knowledge possessed by those who are addressed, it is no subject of rhetorical consideration. This is a ground of belief, which, although it is sometimes very effective in written discourses, and although in such discourses the violation of its principle often occasions lamentable failures, has yet its principal field in spoken oratory. A speaker who is skilled in producing conviction in this way, has often applied to him, in common language, the epithet of plausible. Aristotle places high reliance on this ground of belief ; observing of it, in two different places, that it is most effectual indeed when the audience are very impcrfectly informed on the matter of the discourse, but that, taken all in all, it is probably the most extensively powerful of all means of persuasion ; and that, in deliberative assemblies, it very often triumphs over all other oratorical artifices. The speaker’s Character must be favourably developed in three particulars ; the hearers must be led to have faith in his Moral Worth, in his Understanding, and in his Good Dispositions towards them. It is scarcely possible to overrate the power of the first point. Indeed the art of persuading tlie audience into a belief of his high moral principle, or of his perfect honesty and fairness, is one of the most valuable an orator can acquire. Its attainment should be a leading aim ; but it is not equally attainable in every kind of oratory ; and, in particular, the acquisition of this kind of plausibility is one of the most difficult tasks of a barrister who struggles for success in addressing juries. His difficulties are of two kinds ; the one arising from his audience, mainly founded on their knowledge of his professional position, and their consequent tendency to distrust ; the
other inherent in himself, founded on the abstract nature and the over-cautious, captious spirit, of the legal arguments which in most courts form the greater part of the ordinary practice, and which, as we see in everyday experience, disqualify most lawyers, by various defects (and most of all by want of apparent candour), from success as popular speakers. For success in pulpit-oratory, this instrument of persuasion is absolutely and without exception indispensable. The hearer’s confidence in the speaker’s understanding requires scarcely any illustrative remark but this ; that it must not be a confidence in his oratorical skill, which has an inevitable tendency to check belief : but it may advantageously extend to an unlimited admiration of his general intelligence, and of the profundity of his acquaintance with the matter of the address ; with this restriction, however, that the display of these qualities will lose all their force, if, by exhibiting a want of modesty, they draw tlle speaker into a violation of the first section of the rule. The hearer’s confidence in the speaker’s good-will is as essential as the rest, and the want of this confidence is the main obstacle which makes a speaker on political questions almost inevitably unable to make an impression on men belonging to an opposite faction.
We have now reached the Third Ground of Belief ; that which the writer or speaker produces by exciting, in the minds of those whom he addresses, such an Emotion, or series of Emotions, as for a time excludes the application of their discursive faculties to the arguments regarding the question discussed. The operation which Eloquence here effects on the mind is, it must be observed, complex. The faculty primarily excited is the Imagination ; but the agency of this faculty is merely instrumental ; for the office which it is made to discharge is, that of calling up images which are adequate objects of the Emotions, and are calculated to arouse them. But, further, these objects of the imagination and the feelings, so far as they are useful towards the Production of Belief, are either themselves conclusions presented to the Reason to be pronounced by it true or false, or they are at least steps leading towards such conclusions. This appeal to the Reason, however, is the very last stage of the process : and if the discourse has effected its end, the operation of judgment is instantaneous, and as it were instinctive : the conclusion is admitted by the mind, not as the result of a train of argument, but as an element, so to speak, of the mind’s owm experience or consciousness.
This is the true analysis of all animated and passionate eloquence; and yet, when so represented, this process, in w*hich the art gains its highest triumphs, and without which it would be quite powerless as an instrument for persuading the mass of mankind, may at first sight appear more open to the charge of unfairness than any other means which literature and oratory employ. But the objection is unsound. This, like every other element of eloquence, is a neutral power, which may be made to ally itself either with good or evil, being, however, always most willing to serve truth and rectitude. We shall be enabled to discern its real position, by examining two of its most usual applications.
The first case is that in which the aim of the discourse is to determine the hearers or readers to a certain course of action, of whose abstract justice and propriety they are convinced by a simple statement of its principles, but towards which neither the abstract statement, nor their previous feelings on the subject, tend strongly enough to prompt them ; in other words, a case in which persuasion (in the strict sense of the word), not conviction, is the proper aim. The mere conviction would clearly not lead to the result required ; because men act not from convictions, but from motives ; not from simple belief of truth, reposing ultimately in the understanding, nor even from a belief superinduced on tllis, that the truth is also an object adequate to the gratification of one or more of the active powers of the mind,— but from the suggestions of these active faculties themselves, aroused to energy, and directed to the truths in question as their fittest or only objects. Eloquence strives to communicate the impulse thus needed. The most important truth stated abstractly and barely, and the same truth set forth with the adornment of eloquence, often bear to each other, in respect of their comparative value for mankind, the same relation which the skeleton-hull in the building-yard bears to the gallant ship at sea, armed, manned, and in full sail.
We next take a case which brings us nearer to the disputable ground ; being one in which we attempt, by the excitement of emotion, to lead men to a conclusion in which, they would not have acquiesced but for such excitement. There is nothing to prevent us from assuming, that the conclusion which we maintain in the case supposed is true, although it may seem to those whom we address to be either positively false, or exceedingly problematical. Now this belief or doubt of theirs, adverse at once to the truth and to the end of the discourse, may arise in their minds in a variety of ways, all of these, however, being reducible to two ; for it must either be founded on an antecedent process of pure reasoning which has gone on in their minds, or it must rest on some other antecedent mental process, in which the discursive faculties are either not at all, or not alone, active. The former class of wrong conclusions arise much seldomer from any defect in the process of reasoning which has conducted to them, than from the assumption of erroneous premises ; and this makes it the more difficult to combat them directly by argument. The latter class, however, is that to which belong the great mass of common prejudices ; opinions often resulting from an inextricable combination of shallow reflection, hasty observation, ruling passion, imperfect views of moral duty, and personal or local affections and dislikes ; prepossessions on which arguments can take no hold, but which are often quickly displaced by other notions suggested without argument : just as, in a siege, the shot and shells rebound without effect from the masonry of a casemated bastion, which
a
storming party, if they can once enter the trenches, will carry at the first assault If we undertake to instruct or convince minds engrossed by false opinions of either class, we have only two alternatives : either a direct attack on the reason by argument, which will meet with an inevitable and signal repulse, or a well-directed appeal to other principles of the mind, which will often insure a gratifying success. No doubt it w’ould be better if truth could be protected and disseminated without the use of these indirect methods : no doubt we can conceive, and ardently desire to witness, an advancement of human knowledge, a purification of human desires and affections, an elevation of the standard of conscience as well as intellect, which should make a simple presentation of truth to the reason always adequate for the dislodgement of error : but our mortal nature does not stand on this height, and will never rise so high till it has put on immortality ; and the aspirant after eloquence, like the philosopher and the man of business, must, in his endeavours to act on the minds of others, be contented to take their condition as he finds it. This is all that Aristotle has said, or intended to say, in a passage which has been strangely cited as expressing an opinion, that all the appeals of eloquence to the passions are wrong and illegitimate ; we say strangely, when the assertion is made as to a writer who placed so much weight on this instrument of the art, that he devoted a large proportion of his rhetorical work to an analysis of the most common passions, although, according to his ow, n view of the province of rhetoric, the subject lies beyond its limits.
The Aristotle of modern times has at once beautifully illustrated and convincingly defended the operation of elo-
quence on the imagination and the feelings. “ If the affections in themselves,” says Bacon, “ wrere pliant and obe-' dient to reason, it were true there should be no great use of persuasions and insinuations to the will, more than of naked proposition and proofs. But in regard of the continual mutinies and seditions of the affections, reason would become captive and servile if eloquence of persuasions did not practise and win the imagination from the affections’ part, and contract a confederacy between the reason and imagination against the affections. For the affections themselves carry ever an appetite to good, as reason doth : the difference is, that the affection beholdeth merely the present ; reason beholdeth the future and sum of time. And therefore, the present filling the imagination more, reason is commonly vanquished : but after that the force of eloquence and persuasion hath made tilings future and remote appear as present, then upon the revolt of the imagination reason pre-vaileth.”
But this is a department in which rhetoric can aid the student less than in any other. As it is the field in which genius gathers its fairest harvest, so it is also that which she is called on chiefly to cultivate from her own resources. No rules, and no study or experience, will qualify one for attaining this loftiest stage of eloquence, unless the mind glows spontaneously with that warmth and depth of feeling which its exertions aim at communicating to the breasts of others. To the active and searching intellect, whose suggestions, operating on the stores of knowledge possessed by the writer or speaker, lead him to the sources and instruments of conviction in the argumentative part of his task, and whose acuteness and energy can be incalculably aided by philosophical and critical study, and by experimental practice,—to this foundation and groundwork of success must be added, for the acquisition of excellence in impassioned eloquence, natural powers to which external aids can minister but weakly. A very few observations, therefore, may suffice on this head.
The philosophy of those regions of the human mind on which eloquence here seeks to work, must be learned, not from rhetoric, but from consciousness, observation, and the systematic study of the mental philosophy. It is most usual to consider the class of mental phenomena which are here brought into play as embracing only the active principles of human nature ; but the student will unquestionably gain many incidental hints which would otherwise have escaped his notice, and will probably find his general view over this province of the art made at once clearer and wider, if he investigates with reference to it the whole of that class of phenomena which Thomas Brown ranks together in his analysis of the emotions, in their three genera of the immediate, retrospective, and prospective, and their subdivision (still more valuable for the present purpose) into those which do, and those which do not, involve the feelings that form the criterion of the objects of the moral faculty.
All advices which rhetoric can give on the subject are immediate corollaries from one part of the proposition laid down as our definition ; namely, that the emotion sought to be produced excludes the action of the discursive faculties. The moment an argument, or a hint towards one, is suggested by the impassioned portions of a discourse, the emotion begins to be chilled, and the effect is lost. The emo tion is generated through the excitement of the imagination ; and this fact, with the exclusion of argument, is nearly all that art can here teach. “ The first and most important point to be observed in every address to any passion, sentiment, feeling, &c. is, that it should not be introduced as such, and plainly avowed.” This rule follows both from the principles just laid down, and from another consideration : if the feeling sought to be excited is wrong, the avowal of the intention is manifestly destructive : if it is right and honourable, the self-love of those whom we address is offended by having it hinted that they are deficient in it. Another rule, following from the instrumentality of the imagination, teaches us that conciseness, which in argument is a virtue if it does not degenerate into obscurity, is in the impassioned parts of a discourse always a positive fault. The imagination is operated on, not by general views, but by special circumstances, by pictures held up to it and brought close that they may be distinctly seen. On this, as on other questions connected with the impassioned parts of a discourse, Cicero, himself one of the greatest proficients in this branch, peculiarly attached to its study, and inclined to undervalue other sections of the art, has thrown out, in his attractively desultory fashion, hints that are extremely instructive. A third rule, nearly akin to the last, which may indeed be considered as a portion of it, prescribes an examination and knowledge of all those circumstances which are chiefly instrumental in affecting the feelings ; and Campbell has ably illustrated this precept, classing the most obvious of such circumstances under the seven heads of “ probability, plausibility” (which he considers as different from probability in kind, not in degree), “ importance, proximity of time, connection of place, relation of the actors or sufferers to the hearers or speaker, and interest of the hearers or speaker in the consequences.’’ But, fourthly, such an examination will discover to us many-circumstances which tend to check the flow of feeling, and against which consequently we must guard. Among these, a prominent place is occupied by tediousness, a fault into which the second rule just propounded may entice those who want a complete apprehension of its principle. “ Nothing,” says an ancient critic, “ dries up more quickly than a tear ;” and what is thus true of the softer feelings, is equally so of the more vehement : none of them can be adequately supported by eloquence for more than a certain period, the length of which an impassioned orator must learn from his own consciousness and observation, being always, how--ever, in danger of extending its limits too far, rather than of unduly restricting them. Appeals to the sense ofthe ludicrous by means of wit or humour may, if well supported, be responded to for a much longer time than the serious emotions, even although they should be conducted with little variety and intermission ; but no class of feelings is more completely inconsistent with the exercise of the reasoning faculties ; and a discourse which rests its strength solely or mainly on the use of ridicule, thereby shows that, whatever the author’s motives may be for the choice, he is at any rate disinclined to attempt reaching his end by any thing like pure conviction. Some of the instruments of the ludicrous, too, are apt to fail in their purpose with many people, from being misunderstood ; and against irony in particular, the sharpest of all the weapons of wit, dulness of heart or fancy cases very many in armour of proof. This truth has been remarkably experienced by Swift, who is perhaps the greatest master of irony in any language, but whose polemical dissertations, often clothed in an ironical dress from beginning to end, are thus, in many cases, as little appreciable by a large majority of his readers as if they had been written in an unknown language. As instances of this fault, we may cite two of his most severe satires ; the one his “ Argument against abolishing Christianity,” aimed both at the irreligion and the false religion of the times ; and the other, still more celebrated, the “ Modest proposal for preventing the children of poor people in Ireland from being a burden to their parents or country, and for making them beneficial to the public,” being the bitterest of all sarcastic invectives against the misgovernment of that unhappy island, whose miseries Swift professes to see no possible means of alleviating, except by devoting the superabundant population to the shambles. The only other questions connected with the inquiry which we shall allude to, are those which address themselves to the case
in which those whom we address are already under tlle influence of some emotion, which we must endeavour to allay, or to divert from its original object. The main principle applicable to this head is, that a passion may generally be destroyed most easily, not by the excitement of another which may be considered as its opposite, but by that of passions which do not lie so far distant from it. Anger towards a person, for example, may be removed, not only by exciting good-will towards him, but by holding him up as a proper object of fear. “ Compassion, likewise, may be counteracted either by disapprobation, by jealousy, by fear, or by disgust ; and horror and envy either by good-will or by contempt.” Aristotle, in his minute analysis of the passions most usually appealed to in oratory, which is well worthy of being deeply studied, has several very valuable observations on this head ; as Whately and Campbell have on the whole subject of impassioned eloquence : and Cicero and Quinctilian are much more useful here than they are in relation to the philosophy of arguments.
Our general plan of the Systematic portion of Rhetoric now presents to us its Second Division, which treats of what the ancients called Disposition, or the Arrangement of the several Parts ofa Discourse. This departmentof the inquiry, a favourite one with the classical rhetoricians, especially those of the later ages, has, in modern systems of the art, seldom received a place as a distinct branch, and has, indeed, been generally overlooked altogether ; but the consideration of it suggests illustrations of the laws of eloquence, which claim for it some attention at least, although we shall not be tempted to dwell long upon it.
In reference to the animation of a discourse, and to every appeal which it makes to any principles of the mind besides the reasoning powers, Cicero has well said, that an eloquent composition should be constructed on the principle of the climax, rising gradually in its demands on the fancy and feelings of those to whom it is addressed, in the same ratio in which it has succeeded in opening the way for their rational conviction. This rule is in truth a very simple application of the fundamental proposition of rhetoric ; and all special directions regarding arrangement will, so far as they are sound, be immediately deducible from it. Aristotle, desirous, as he always is, to expel the prevailing errors of his time, by maintaining the due prevalence of the argumentative element of eloquence, observes that, in despite of that complication of divisions which already reigned in the schools, the essential parts common to all argumentative compositions are two only ; the proposition or statement of the question, and the proof or argument in support of it. And this is quite true ; for every other portion is introduced solely for the sake of these two, and has no value, unless in so far as it promotes their purpose. In most cases, however, an argument cannot with advantage be maintained thus barely ; but a complete discourse may always be with little difficulty analysed by a division into four parts ; the Exordium or Introduction, the Proposition or Statement of the Question, the Proof or Argument, and the Peroration.
The Exordium, when it finds a place, is designed for conciliating the minds of the persons addressed ; and Qidnctilian reduces to three the dispositions which it should aim at producing—Good-will, Attention, and Docility. The materials ofthe introduction should be drawn as closely as possible from the subject of the discourse, and as little as possible from common-places ; and it therefore follows, that the ancient oratorical practice of keeping a stock of exordia prepared beforehand, which Cicero generally followed, and which Demosthenes has exemplified by a collection of more than fifty specimens, one or two of them introduced in his extant harangues, was unsatisfactory and dangerous even for public speakers, unless used with great judgment, and was quite
preposterous in the case of all other writers. Both for the w'riter and the speaker, but more especially for the latter, the chief difficulty is, the passing naturally and safely from the theme suggested in the introduction, to that which is to be propounded in the next part of the composition.
If we say that the Proposition requires little illustration and few precepts, we shall find that Aristotle is with us, Quinctilian neutral, and the later rhetoricians, both Greek and Latin, decidedly against us. Even if we professed to deliver a complete system, we should not be easily induced to try the student’s patience, by following Severianus, or the pseudo-Augustin, far through the mazes of the
Status Quwstionis ;
but the principles which should guide us in laying down our proposition, and in choosing it when that is in our power, are far too little studied (if gross violation of the principle be a proof that it has not been studied or understood) by many argumentative writers, and by a still greater number of argumentative speakers. Preachers are in this respect decidedly the most faulty class ; and orators of other kinds are protected against the error less by their own familiarity with the principles than by their liability to those checks by contradiction which the preacher wants. The most important rule, and one which is but too often broken, is to frame in our own minds a clear notion of the proposition, which involves among other contained rules that of ascertaining, that w, hat we are about to argue is truly a proposition, and not a mere term. “ In an ethical work,” says Whately, “ one may be treating of virtue, while discussing all or any of these questions—wherein virtue consists ? whence our notions of it arise ? whence it derives its obligation ? &c.; but if these questions were confusedly blended together, or if all of them were treated of within a short compass, the most just remarks and forcible arguments would lose their interest and their utility.”
Qfthe Argumentative, or third portion of the composition, which has been already discussed at such length, little seems necessary to be added. It must, of course, include the Refutation of an opponent’s argument, as well as the statement of those by which our own proposition is directly supported. The proper places for such refutative arguments, and the best arrangement of arguments in general, in cases where the rules draw n from the kind of the argument do not apply, have given rise to much discussion, and to many contradictory rules, from which it is not easy to extract general laws, or any very positive inference beyond the advice, to study the aspect of the evidence, and the disposition of those who are to judge of it. The rule most commonly-received, which directs that the strongest arguments be placed first and last, and the weakest in the middle, is subject to constantly recurring exceptions, of w-hich we only cite one from Quinctilian, namely, the case where a harangue preceding ours has created in the minds of the hearers on certain points an impression strongly unfavourable to us, which we must at all hazards endeavour immediately to remove. Under this head, in respect both of their nature and their place, fall most of those passages occasionally introduced in argumentative composition, w7 hich, under the names of Narration, Digression, and the like, rhetoricians have often classed separately as integral parts of a discourse ; and here also there frequently occur fitting occasions for the introduction of appeals to the feelings.
But the Conclusion or Peroration is the place for pressing such appeals to the utmost, to which office it adds that of bringing together into one view, by a Recapitulation, when one is thought necessary, the heads of the argument, or at least the results to which the speaker wishes it to be believed that they conduct. The Recapitulation is, for those who are maintaining a weak cause, a favourite and advantageous place for varnishing over the defects of the proof,—by assumptions of things as proved which have not been proved,— by exaggeration of the favourable points in our owm cause,—
by the explaining away of such points in the argument opposed to us,—and by other artifices belonging to the numerous class of Rhetorical Fallacies. In its passionate parts the peroration has, both in ancient and in modern times, prompted some of the noblest flights of human eloquence.
If Eloquence depended solely on Style, those lofty pretensions of rhetoricians which were alluded to in the first paragraph of this paper would be not merely excusable or plausible, but to a considerable extent justified by their results. The highest qualities of style indeed are emanations from the mind ; but many of its excellences may be attained by industrious practice, conducted in obedience to systematic rules. The expression may be feeble, because words, phrases, and sentences cannot be strong, unless the thoughts which they represent be strong likewise ; it may be wanting in precision, because this is another quality flowing essentially from the nature of the author’s conceptions ; and if ornament be introduced, it may be destitute of originality and liveliness, because no rules can confer either the power of felicitous invention or that of extensive and acute observation. But even in these very particulars, art, although weak, is not altogether powerless ; accuracy, or even strength of thinking, and closeness of observation, may be increased by sound precepts and active exercise, which, by thus improving the faculties of the intellect, will necessarily facilitate the expression of its thoughts by language. And, again, if a man can only be taught to apprehend distinctly the limits of the province within which his mind may act with advantage, and to adapt the character of his style to that of his natural powers, the rules of composition may suffice to render his style, if not positively good, at least negatively faultless.
But Style, instead of solely constituting eloquence, might, if we chose to court contradiction by stating a truth in the shape of a paradox, be even said to be no essential part of it.
. It is an unavoidable inference from the principles which we have laid down, that all eloquence is relative. The harangues tvhich a chief in the centre of Africa delivers to his fellow-savages, or by which a demagogue in religion or politics excites an uneducated mob, such as unfortunately may still be found in our country as well as in others, may be truly and powerfully eloquent, because fitted beyond all other discourses for convincing and impelling to action the persons on whose understanding and will they are designed to operate ; and yet, not only may these orations contain constant violations of all rules of style, except those few which are directly referable to the thought, but they may owe to such violations no mean part of their persuasive efficacy. This view, however, is stated solely for the purpose of guarding against error in our notions as to the place which style really holds as an element of eloquence. In all the applications of preceptive systems of the art in civilized and cultivated society, or, in other words, in all cases in which such preceptive systems can arise, the rules of style must be obeyed more or less closely, and the acquisition of them is indispensable for every student of rhetoric.
But the details of the subject cannot here be taught. Our plan is that of a mere outline, and in filling it up we confine ourselves to an attempt to illustrate some of those points wllich bear most strongly on the mental laws of rhetorical belief. Those useful rules which affect style chiefly or essentially as such, may be satisfactorily learned from many works of different kinds, both in our own language, and in others, both ancient and modern. The principles of style in the classical tongues are not truths foreign to our own, but only truths which, always analogically useful, do in many instances hold as to all languages, while in some they cannot be applied to the tongues of modern Europe, without cautions and modifications : we may learn much from Aristotle, Quinctilian1 Dionysius of Halicarnassus, and even from
the later rhetoricians and critics, Greek as well as Latin. On English style we have many good works : Campbell, Blair, Karnes, and Whately, abound with valuable illustrations of the subject in its relation to rhetorical principles ; and of those treatises which are designed chiefly as manuals of style, without aiming at a general exposition of the philosophical principles of eloquence, more than one might be safely recommended. Of those works which have attained reputation in this latter class, none will be found so useful as one of the latest, Irving’s unpretending and excellent Elements of English Composition.
We may here confine ourselves almost to a simple enumeration of those Qualities of Style which are strictly Rhetorical, and which, availing ourselves of Whately’s extension of the analysis proposed by Campbell, we may reduce to three : Perspicuity, Vivacity, and Beauty.
The first quality is of course an indispensable requisite in compositions of every kind ; and the principles of rhetoric remind us, that, while style, in order to be perspicuous at all, must obey certain general laws, the quality is also in a very important sense relative to the knowledge and intellect of those whom the language is intended to instruct, convince, or persuade. The same statement which is abundantly perspicuous to one audience, may be quite unintelligible to another less informed. In the adaptation of style in this respect to different classes of readers and hearers, the student cannot be so much aided by any rules as by his own judgment and observation ; but in order to avoid, on the one hand, the obscurity which may arise from conciseness, and, on the other, the wearisomeness which inevitably attends prolixity, it has been recommended to repeat the thought and argument in several different forms, “ each in itself brief, but all together affording such an expansion of the sense to be conveyed, and so detaining the mind upon it, as the case may require.” “ Cicero among the ancients, and Burke among the modern writers, afford perhaps the most abundant practical exemplifications of this rule.” But, as we shall speedily discover that an overflow of figurative language is inconsistent with perspicuity in all circumstances, we must not be thus tempted to believe that the style which is least figurative is the most perspicuous. Illiterate audiences, in particular, are not only-pleased with figurative language, but may often by means of it be made to comprehend a principle, which would have remained perfectly dark to them if conveyed in abstract and unimaginative terms.
Vivacity of style is the quality by which it makes its appeal to the imagination, or, through that faculty, to the passions and other active powers. Independently of those considerations as to the number and arrangement of words, upon which we cannot here enter, Vivacity is chiefly produced by the use of figurative language, which critical and rhetorical writers have divided into two kinds, Tropes and Figures. It has been said by some writers of authority, that the distinction implied in these terms is of little importance, because, it is added, “ nothing can be built upon it in practice, nor can it always be clearly observed.” The language of the imagination and passions, however, does naturally fall into two classes, the characteristics of which correspond substantially with those assigned by the rhetoricians to their two divisions ; and the student of the principles of eloquence may find it worth while to recollect the distinction. In the former class, which one may consider as properly Tropes, taking the metaphor as an example, a word is used in a sense different from its usual and appropriate one. In the other class, composing the Figures, a word or sentence, without being either employed in a different sense from its usual one, or put into any unusual form, derives its figurative or exciting power merely from tlle fact, that the form of expression is not that which an unimpassioned mind would have used in the place where it occurs, but that
which would have suggested itself to one whose feelings or imagination were at the time highly active : the Interrogation, the Apostrophe, the Exclamation, and similar rhetorical figures, may be cited as instances. There is at least one practical inference deducible from the distinction ; namely, that the Trope proper may sometimes be safely used by rule, while the Figure proper will always be ridiculous unless prompted by genuine emotion. The former may have place in all the degrees of style, from the calmest to the most animated ; the latter is appropriate to eloquence of a highly passionate or imaginative cast, and is indeed much more rarely admissible in written prose composition than in poetry or in spoken oratory.
Perspicuity and Vivacity are qualities of style, which minister directly to the great purpose of eloquence, and which, indeed, language must possess before it can reach its rhetorical end by both of its two leading paths ; the former being essential for the conviction of the understanding, and the latter for the awakening of the fancy and the feelings. The same thing cannot be said, at least not without qualification, as to the third quality of style, namely, Beauty or Elegance, whose immediate purpose is the gratification of taste. Either in this place, or at a former stage of the inquiry, there might have been room for some curious speculations as to the functions which taste really exercises as an oratorical instrument of belief ; but the practical inferences, on which alone it is proper to enter, are very plain, and may be very briefly stated. If it is found that the gratification of the taste of those whom we address is likely to impede our progress towards impressing on their minds the truth which we wish to teach, we should at once abandon all attempts to furnish such gratification, and pursue our principal end by means of clearness and animation. But if it is found, as it most usually will be, that our puηκ>se may be promoted by gratifying the sense of beauty in our hearers, either through the general elegance of our composition, or even through longer and more sustained addresses to the imagination, not issuing in the excitement of passion, but resting ultimately in the mere pleasure of contemplation,— we shall be bound to use, so far as we are able, this lawful means of persuasion ; taking care however to recollect, that, as soon as we have reason to believe the minds of the hearers in danger of being tempted towards such a lively attention to those incidental ornaments of our discourse a» will exclude from their thoughts the main subject of it, we have thus evidence that it is time to discard the assistant, which, like a spoiled domestic servant, has begun to play the part of the master.
III.
The last division of the three, in which we undertook to treat the subject of this paper, embraces what may be called the Criticism of Rhetoric.
This branch, as it must present itself to the student, should engage him in an examination of the most celebrated efforts of eloquence which have been given to the world, either by speech or by writing, in ancient as well as in modern times ; the philosophical principles of the art being assumed throughout as the standard, and the analysis of the works being instituted for the purpose of discovering the extent and particulars of their obedience to those fundamental laws, or their departure from them. In reflecting, however, on the limits within which the plan of this work necessarily and properly restricts our contribution to it, we have more than once, convinced of the inadequacy of all that could be here performed, towards aiding the student in this interesting and valuable department of his training, felt strongly inclined to content ourselves with a brief though earnest exhortation to this branch of rhetorical stu ∙ dies, as indispensable for all who would derive full advan
tage from a systematic acquaintance with the principles. But there is one consideration which imperatively forbids this. We would not willingly, it is true, be suspected of hoping that we shall be able to convert to the orthodox doctrine any who remain incredulous after perusing the higher and more elaborate works on rhetoric ; but our outline may fall into the hands of some who either have not studied the subject at all, or have not derived their notions of it from the best sources. To such readers, indeed, our illustrations are particularly addressed ; and we shall have failed altogether in our purpose, if our mode of treating the subject should lead to a radical misapprehension of the relative importance belonging to the several branches into which the study of rhetoric divides itself; a result which would be not unlikely to happen, if one essential department were dismissed with
a
simple recommendation, however warm.
But the plan adopted in our systematic section, resembling that of a map, in which the chief cities of an empire are laid down in their relative bearings, is inapplicable to the present division, in which, as we assume the office of topographers, we must select one or two narrow districts as the scene of our labours. The province from which our very few specimens will be exclusively selected, is that of Political Oratory, which offers to the student of eloquence peculiar advantages, arising chiefly from the universally acknowledged excellence of the ancient masterpieces, from the high merit, as well as interest, of many works of the kind in our own country, and from the immense variety which the compositions display, both in matter and in form.
In many of the qualities essential to eloquent composition, the historical writings of the moderns, and some of their philosophical works, will, at least, suffer no dishonour by comparison with those of the ancients ; although on a close and comprehensive parallel they cannot, with respect to the mere manner of delivery, be fairly said to equal the philosophy and history of the heathen world. But, in Public Speaking, the Eloquence of the Ancients has left modern oratory at an immeasureablc distance ; and in this field the Greeks are even farther superior to the Romans, than these are to the nations of Christian Europe.
The great age of the Grecian Orators embraces scarcely three generations, and the most celebrated names are to be found about the middle of the period, all within the petty district of Attica. The critics of the Alexandrian school, when they issued in a later time that sovereign decree, which declared certain authors and no others, in every department of literature, to be classical and worthy of study, admitted into their approved list ten Attic orators, of each of whom, excepting Hyperides, we possess some remains. Antiphon, Andocides, Lycurgus, and Dinarchus, must not here detain us ; and Lysias, Isocrates, and Isæus, can scarcely receive more attention, although their works are far from being undeserving of study as models of eloquence, and are singularly instructive as illustrating, in many varied cases of private litigation, points which bear upon the merits and character of the two great orators, and which present themselves less prominently in the political, and even the judicial harangues, which have been bequeathed to us by these latter. Lysias, one of the simplest and purest of Attic writers, is especially commended by the ancient critics for his skill in the introductory and narrative parts of his orations ; and Dionysius of Halicarnassus considers Isæus as closely resembling him, with less real eloquence and less nature. Isocrates, who merely composed discourses to be delivered by others, and was the teacher of all the most celebrated orators who succeeded him, is one of the greatest masters of style whom Grecian literature possesses; while he unites this quality
with others of a higher class in some of his discourses, such as the oration written in the name of Archidamus, which, with another composition of the same author, is our only example of ancient political pamphlets, or argumentative discussions on temporary topics, avowedly composed for circulation, not for oral delivery.
But the most exalted place, not among the Athenian orators only, but among those of ancient times in general, belongs to the two celebrated contemporaries and rivals, Demosthenes and Æschines, of both of whom we possess adequate specimens.
The fame of Demosthenes has suffered less question from modem critics, than that of any other ancient author whatever ; and no one who studies the w, orks ofthe mighty Athenian with intelligence, sensibility, and becoming information, will dream of dissenting from the universal judgment. The secrct of his success lay unquestionably in that predominant quality which, difficult or impossible of analysis, but instinctively felt by his readers, while they are carried along on his irresistible current of thought and feeling, the ancients called his vehemence
(inviτηi),—
that strong firmness of soul with which he threw himself upon his subject, grasping its details in all their relations, forcing them to support him as he hurried towards the end which lay before him, and kindling them, by the flashes of his imagination and passion, into lights which illuminated his headlong course. Dionysius, one of his best critics,—who analyses his style into a combination of all those which had preceded, uniting, in particular, the austerity of the early orators and historians with the polish of the later,—describes the effects of his orations upon the feelings, when compared with that which is produced by such compositions as those of Isocrates, by saying that the latter leave us in the same contemplative mood as if we had been listening to strains of exquisite music, while the former inspire us by turns with all the passions incident to humanity, and with an agitation as fierce as that which raged among the initiated during the celebration of the mystic rites of Cybele. And yet the man who, by stamping upon his subject the impress of his own vigorous and impassioned mind, has made himself thus eloquent in the very loftiest sense which the word can bear, attained this high excellence and unchallenged fame by a course of self-training the most severe that is on record, and, after all his exertions, wanted altogether many of those lesser attractions, both of matter and of style, which have of themselves been sufficient to establish the fame of meaner orators. A writer in the Edinburgh Review in 1820, whose hand is easily recognisable as the same which annexed the Dissertation on the Eloquence of the Ancients to the collected edition of Lord Brougham’s speeches, has not one whit overstated the amount of Demosthenes’s deficiencies, in describing him as having gained his ascendancy “ without any ostentation of profound reflection or philosophical remark—with few attempts at generalization—without the glare and attraction of prominent ornaments—with extremely few, and those not very successful, instances of the tender and pathetic—with a considerable degree of coarseness, and what we should call vulgarity—and absolutely without any pretension to wit or humour.” “ Could the manner of Demosthenes be copied,” says David Hume, with an unusual ½τ armth of commendation, “ its success would be infallible over a modern assembly. It is rapid harmonji exactly adjusted to the sense ; it is vehement reasoning, without any appearance of art ; it is disdain, anger, boldness, freedom, involved in a continued stream of argument ; and, of all human productions, the orations of Demosthenes present to us the models which approach the nearest to perfection.”
It would be easy, if our limits allowed us, to indicate, in every one of the political orations of Demosthenes, instances illustrating his favourite and characteristic methods of influ
encing his hearers ;—his striking and lively narratives of interesting facts, like the scene at Athens on the taking of Elatea, painted in the oration for the Crown ;—the happy illustrations from familiar life which abound everywhere ;— the metaphors few and brief, and effective in proportion to their briefness and rarity, like the example in the first Philippic, where Philip is represented as a hunter, and the Athenians as his prey lying quietly within the toils ;—those tremendous invectives launched by turns against Philipand his Athenian partisans ;—those apparently unpremeditated bursts of feeling, in which every strong emotion, personal or political, in the minds of the audience, is awakened by an honest, indignant, conversational remonstrance,—a class of appeals exemplified in the celebrated reproach to the Athenians for their newsmonging indolence, while events the most extraordinary were summoning them loudly to action (introduced originally in the first Philippic, and again more briefly in the speech on Philip’s Letter);—and those grandest and most sustained flights of all, in which the nationality of Greece, and of Attica, the proudest tribe of Grecians, is at once aroused and flattered hy the most dramatic exhibitions of their ancient glory and greatness. For those who wish to see most of the orator’s characteristics developed within a moderate compass, none of the orations perhaps is better suited than the third Philippic. His favourite paradoxical argument, that the utter wretchedness of the Athenian affairs at that juncture, caused, as it had been, by their own shameful inactivity, gave them truly the best reason to hope for success on a change of measures,—is followed by an argument, not unlike Canning’s in 1826 for the war with Spain, in which the speaker maintains that peace is unattainable from the position and character of the enemy, whose treachery is exemplified in a style of the most powerful irony: the arbitrary government of Philip, and its results, are set in strong contrast to the nature and consequences of the liberal supremacy which Athens, Sparta, and Thebes, had by turns exercised over the free states of Greece : a bitterly contemptuous simile, the celebrated one of the heir and the slave, introduces a noble parallel between ancient honesty and modern corruption : the story of Euphraeus adds individual interest to the general picture of the misusage of the Greeks by Philip, which receives its finishing touches in the indignantly sarcastic description of the fate which had befallen Philip’s submissive victims, the men of Oreum and Eretria: and the brief practical Summaryofadvices which closes the speech is ushered in by a declaration which the speaker thunders in the ears of the Athenian people, with the majesty of a king commanding his subjects—that if all mankind should consent to be slaves, the struggle for liberty must still be maintained by them, who of old had been so proudly illustrious and free.
But both Demosthenes and Æschines may be studied to most advantage in the extant orations delivered by each of them on two occasions, in which their personal character and fortunes were at stake. The former of the two was that on which Demosthenes impeached his rival for corruption and misconduct in the famous Embassy to Philip. His speech in support of the accusation is as characteristic as any of his which we possess, and, while it abounds with his other excellencies, is particularly happy in its wealth of picturesque and pointed incident ; Philip’s oath in the tavern, the anecdote of Satyrus, the supper of Phaidimos, and the melancholy group of the Olynthian prisoners, being singularly beautiful examples of this kind. The answer of Æschines is yet finer, being, indeed, the acknowledged masterpiece of’ that, most skilful and eloquent orator, whose fame, but, for the overshadowing neighbourhood of his immortal rival, w’ould have grown up higher and more widely than that of any other public speaker of the ancient world. But these two orations on the σ∙cqαwfii⅛ι∕α, as they are usually called, are not so well fitted to become rhetorical exercises
as the other two, being the Orations on the Crown, or the accusation and defence of Ctesiphon. Upon these we must enter more minutely, the latter being by far the most admirable of Demosthenes’s works.
While the Athenians were engaged in their struggle against Philip, Ctesiphon had moved and carried in the assembly of the people a decree for honouring Demosthenes with a civic crown, as a benefactor of his country. After the battle of Chæronæa had made Greece truly a province of Macedon, Philip and his son, by a very sound policy, allowed the Greek citizens to fight out tlleir old political quarrels ; and Athens continued to be torn in pieces by her two factions, as incessantly as when the one, headed by Demosthenes, had opposed Philip to the death, and the other, actuated by very various motives, and led by Æschines in alliance with the virtuous Phocion and others of the aristocratic party, had urged early submission to the conqueror. The latter faction eagerly seized Ctesiphon’s decree as a means of crushing Demosthenes. It was grossly and undeniably illegal in two respects ; having been issued before Demosthenes had given in his accounts for certain public offices which he then held, and having directed the proclamation of the honour to be made in the theatre, not in one of the national assemblies ; both of which acts were forbidden by subsisting laws. If, then, the sole end had been to procure a conviction against Ctesiphon, and if the court appointed to try him had been well informed and impartial, the issue could not have been for a moment doubtful. The court, however, possessed neither of these qualifications ; and, moreover, although Ctesiphon was nominally the person impeached, yet the sentence against him was avowedly intended to be used as a vote of censure on the whole political conduct of Demosthenes, and the proceedings would not, to the slightest extent, have answered the purpose of their promoters unless this should be their understood result. On this ground both parties prepared to fight the battle ; and the contest, prompted by party spirit and personal animosity, involving in its decision no great
Î
lolitical question, and debased in its progress by number-ess instances of calumny and malevolence on both sides, has nevertheless given us two such specimens of eloquence as neither judicial nor political oratory has equalled before or since.
Those who recollect that this was the real state of the question, will admire the skill and judgment exhibited by Æschines in conducting his argument in support of the accusation ; in which, if we are to believe that the parties understood Ctesiphon to be the real and only defendant, he cannot be absolved from the charge of having made a most injudicious, and indeed partially irrelevant choice of topics, and of having by his line of remark wilfully drawn upon himself the triumphant reply of his adversary.
The exordium is simple, but very fine : it contains a complaint of factious and unlawful exertions made by the opposite party, and of an inveterate disuse of certain old regulations, which disuse had enabled demagogues to carry laws destructive of the constitution: it declares the right of impeaching the proposers of such measures to be the only remaining safeguard of the state ; and it concludes with an animated address, calling on the judges to deal fearlessly with the cause, as the sworn administrators of justice and as citizens intrusted with the protection of the laws and of freedom, like soldiers placed in the front of the battle.
The speaker instantly passes to the strong part of his case,—a clear exposition of the several laws which Ctesiphon’s decree was alleged to have transgressed, a proof from the public records that the decree had in fact violated those enactments, and a statement and refutation of every sophism by which the adversary could be conceived likely to support the plea that the laws did not apply to the notorious facts. His argument, in all its parts, is completely unan
swerable ; but it occupies barely a sixth part of the oration ; and the words of the decree, assigning as reasons for the honour conferred on Demosthenes, his virtue, his courage, and his constant pursuit of the true weal of the state, give the cue for the commencement of the attack upon him, the real object of the prosecution. The nominal defendant is dropped as an incumbrance, and the orator girds himself manfully for the serious part of the onset. We cannot follow him through the details of his enemy’s political conduct, private life, doubtful pedigree, and faulty oratory, all of which are described with a plausible minuteness, and with the keenest sarcasm. Political folly is the slightest of the charges : Demosthenes is accused, at every step, of political dishonesty,—of peculation and corruption,—of favour to the Persian king, and co-operation with his views, a charge which was quite true and quite creditable to the accused, but was as skilfully chosen for rousing Athenian prejudices as a charge of combination with Francewould have been for exciting an English mob in 1793,—and (which sounds rather oddly) he is roundly taxed with a secret attachment to the Macedonian interest, and with the secret acceptance of bribes from Philip. There were two points in which Æschines had a strong hold on his antagonist, and with which he therefore taunts him incessantly : the unhappy issue of the war with Philip, which, it is again and again asserted, had been wholly caused by the policy of Demosthenes ; and that orator’s unfortunate deficiency in personal courage, which had prompted him to a disgraceful flight at the battle of Chæronæa. There are many fine passages in the earlier parts of this long review ; but the orator does not begin to rise steadily till, in closing the main section of his argument under this head, he recalls the glory of the Persian times, and contrasts the simple honours which rewarded the patriotism of Miltiades, Aristides, and the soldiers who conquered in the battle of the Strymon, with the profuse decorations now every day lavished on the chiefs of petty factions.
He then reminds the judges that, after all, from the terms of those articles of impeachment which they sat there to try, even his failure in convincing them that Demosthenes was a bad man and a bad citizen would not entitle Ctesi-phon to an acquittal, since his decree, as proved in the first part of the argument, was at any rate manifestly illegal : he urges them to insist on Ctesiphon or his advocate keepmg closely to the point ; and he exhorts them yet more strenuously to compel his adherence to the division of the argument which Æschines had laid down, and still more partt-cularly to the order of the topics adopted in that division. He now proceeds with increased rapidity and vehemence. He anticipates Demosthenes’s passionate style of address, cautions the judges against its effects, and endeavours to render it ridiculous by mimicry. He answers by anticipation, and with much manliness and candour, though with severe recrimination, the personal abuse which he professed to be certain that Demosthenes would heap upon him.
He then, entering on his peroration, passes to a summary of the whole argument, amounting to this, that the decree was illegal, and that, although it had been perfectly regular, Demosthenes was utterly unworthy of the honours which it conferred. He thence rises into one of the noblest and most effective exhortations which the records of oratory have to exhibit ; opening with skilfully chosen instances of the severity with which the existing law’s had recently punished citizens who deserted their country, as Demosthenes had deserted his place in battle and his duty as an adviser of the state ; reminding the judges of those feelings of shame with which the Athenians would appear in the presence of Greece at the approaching national convocation, if they should have failed to brand with infamy the destroyer of their country ; and closing with what is perhaps the very grandest extant example of solemn imaginative eloquence.
He calls on the judges to conceive the wise and good of old as rising and surrounding the tribunal,—Solon entreating the judges to respect their oaths and the laws,—Aristides in anguish deploring the perversion of justice. “ Think ye not,” exclaims he in conclusion, “ think ye not that Themistocles, and they who died at Marathon and at Platæa,— ay, and the very graves of your forefathers,—will utter groans, if he who avows that lle conspired with the barbarians against the Greeks shall be publicly honoured by your decree ?” It is provoking to be compelled to add, that this admirable close does not conclude the oration. A few common-place words of application would have wound up the discourse in the usual way ; and these accordingly Æschines does not fail to insert ; but not till, with the sound of his own magnificent exorcism still ringing in his ears, he has marred everything by a tragic invocation of the earth and the sun, and virtue, and intelligence, and instruction, conceived in the very worst taste of Euripides, all but nonsensical in itself, misplaced in any oration, and in this a most humiliating spectacle of incorrect judgment degrading and disarming genius.
Every one knows what was the issue of the contest. Ctesiphon was acquitted ; and his accuser, having failed in gaining the number of votes which would have protected the charge from being considered frivolous and malicious, was fined, and compelled to go into exile. We do not possess such materials as enable us to judge of the relative strength of the two factions among the numerous judges who pronounced this decision ; but the splendid oration of Demosthenes for the defence, now perused by us under every possible disadvantage, would tempt us to believe that, in an audience so volatile and susceptible as the Athenians, who were confessedly on many occasions impelled hither and thither by the orators at their will, even party-spirit may for once have been compelled to deny its own nature, and to become silent and impartial.
The oration of Demosthenes, admirable though it be, will not call for a more minute analysis than that of Æschines ; both because it is better known and more generally accessible, and because its strain may in part be anticipated from the outline which has just been given. Many of its most striking beauties we must pass unnoticed, and we can but indicate one or two others ; such as the skill of insinuation throughout, with which the orator endeavours at once to kindle the feelings of his own party, and to conciliate those 
of
the other ; the frequent felicity of illustration, as where he compares Æschines to a physician, who, after having watched his patient through a long sickness, propounds his remedies for the first time on the day of the funeral ; the fine sketches of character, like that noble one of Philip, crippled in every member of his body, but unsubdued in mind, and burning with the love of power and honour.
The Exordium is exceedingly skilful. After briefly claiming credit for good will, the speaker protests, with a very well acted indignation, against the attempt of his adversary to bind him to a particular order of topics, which, he asserts, the judges cannot countenance without violating their oath and every principle of justice : he then, after adverting to his own disadvantages, declares with artful earnestness, that the turn which Æschines had given to the accusation had, as he now found, put the character of Demosthenes himself distinctly in issue, forcing him, whether he would or not, to defend the whole tenor of his public life : he asserts peremptorily, that if Æschines had confined himself to the matters really suggested by the articles of impeachment, he, in the defence, would have entered at once on the question of the legality of the decree, but that he was now obliged to follow a different course in order to dispel unfounded prejudices : and he closes his introduction hy insinuations against the accuser, both for his long delay in bringing the charge, and for the form in wllich it was at length presented.
He commences the body of the oration by intimating his intention to answer specifically each article of the charge, after he shall have premised a general view of the state of affairs when he first entered on political life. We cannot follow him through the details by which he redeems, or seems to redeem, this promise ; but two or three points may be selected as prominently instructive. Indignant denials of unproved charges are thrown out at the very commencement, and accompanied by that overwhelming strength of recrimination which is exerted in almost every page of the whole speech : again and again, from the very opening of the argument, he protests that his line of reasoning had been forced on him by his adversary ; and not till after he had endeavoured to destroy the whole credit ofthe accuser, by repeated and detailed charges of gross dishonesty and corruption, does he venture to approach the articles Ofimpeachment themselves. At length he recites them, and enters on his answer ; but, protesting once more against the accuser’s tactics, he professes himself compelled to defend, in the first place, that part of the decree which sets forth his own character, which he vindicates by a long and animated history. He then, with a contemptuous negligence of expression, intimates that there seems to be no other task left him, than to prove the strict legality of tlle decree, in favour of which he delivers an argument extending to about one twentieth part of the whole discourse. On this point, which was the one formally at issue, his defence is as lame as can well be conceived : Æschines, indeed, by his arguments in anticipation, had beaten away from beneath his feet all the ground on which he could have hoped to stand : one such plea, however, from the existence of a contradictory law, he does plausibly support ; and one unanticipated ground which he urges, intended as a denial of the fact, proves, on close examination, to amount nearly to this, that although he had not accounted when the decree was passed, he had done so before the accusation was brought, and his accounts had not been challenged.
But the great orator, strong as was his faith in the legal inaptitude and factious prepossessions of the judges, dared not to close his case on such sophisms as this ; and accordingly, when he leaves the question as to the legality of the decree, never again to mention it, the oration is not quite half over. He immediately resumes his former detail of facts, grappling, however, more and more closely with Æschines, and following up every proof of his own patriotism and sagacity with a stinging contrast between his conduct and that of his enemy. Of the two points on which his argument was weakest, the one, his own personal courage, does not draw from him a single word ; but the other, the undeniable failure of the policy which he had advised, it behoved him to touch ; and as it was a matter in which, till some answer should be attempted, there might prevail in the minds of the audience a lurking conviction ruinous to Demosthenes and his cause, he summons up all his energies to dislodge the impression, introducing the subject boldly almost immediately after he had dismissed the legal argument, and disposing of it in one of his noblest appeals to national pride and tlle sense of honour. This magnificent passage of the speech is composed in the same lofty key in which we heard the orator closing the third Philippic : it rolls on in a mingled flood of rapid illustration, of proudly patriotic spirit, and of declarations of that love of freedom which must burn in Athens though all the world besides were dark ; and it is terminated by the tremendous oath, in which the brave who had died in battle for their country are called as witnesses to the truth of the principles which the speaker maintained. This most eloquent and celebrated passage is not an argument : it will bear no analysis as such ; but it is one of the most strongly felt and admirably wrought of all addresses to the feelings of national honour, pride, and independence. The alterna-
tions of argumentative with narrative matter which make up the staple of the oration are next resumed, and close at last in a remonstrance against the unfairness of the comparison proposed by Æschines, between the honours of the ancient times and those now conferred.
A short peroration follows, in which Demosthenes, without attempting any summary, claims for himself, and denies to his rival, credit for possessing what he maintains to be the two principal qualifications of a good citizen ; namely, unchangeable love for his country, and a constant inclination to prompt his countrymen to noble and ambitious deeds. The foreign faction are then painted with a few bold and hurried strokes ; and the oration closes with a prayer to the gods to convert them if they will be converted, and if they will not, to cut them off from among the people, destroying a few men that the nation may be saved.
We had designed to attempt exhibiting the eloquence of the great Attic masters in a yet stronger light, by contrasting it with specimens from the lowest ages of Greek oratory ; and for that purpose we had selected one or two disputations of the learned and skilful sophist Libanius, the panegyrist of Julian the Apostate. Want of space, however, compels us to abandon this intention ; and as the same cause prevents us from entering minutely on the Orations of Cicero, we prefer leaving these altogether untouched, to passing them with a few vague generalities. The characteristics of Cicero’s admirable eloquence, and the differences between it and that of Demosthenes, are matters familiar to every one ; and the study of the Latin orator is more common than that of the Greek, nearly in the inverse proportion of the real merits of the two.
Aristotle, in his Rhetoric, makes an observation which has been sometimes treated as an extravagant paradox. He says that courts of law are the great field for the display of impassioned eloquence ; and that, on the other hand, deliberative assemblies, being convened for the purpose of determining on their own affairs, will always force a speaker to keep to the point, and are of all audiences the most intolerant of declamation. Now, with regard to the judicial tribunals of Greece in the philosopher’s own time, the first part of his assertion was unfortunately quite true ; and as to the latter part, if the proceedings in the Eccleshe of Athens did not justify it, which they probably did, those in our own British houses of parliament, which may still be considered as the only great modem schools of political eloquence, have most signally demonstrated its truth. The eloquence of our statesmen is remarkable for its tone of practical sense, the closeness of its adherence to the business immediately in hand, and its general avoidance of oratorical excitement and display, even on occasions when these are justly called for. The character of our great speakers as statesmen likewise has been inextricably mixed up with the consideration of their strictly oratorical merits ; and hence more than one of them hold in universal estimation a rank as orators, which they owe in no mean degree to their talent and success as political leaders. Altogether, while there has generally prevailed among us, and more especially till the beginning of the present century, a tendency to depreciate unduly the eloquence of our statesmen, there are yet very few of them indeed whose works could be recommended, unless with much qualification and explanation, as models for the rhetorical student. The speeches of the younger Pitt, eminently characteristic both in grasp of intellect and haughty stubbornness of will, often admirable and masterly as details of facts or expositions of principles, and frequently most highly successful in the speaker’s favourite tone of contemptuous Tecriminativcsarcasm, are but indifferently adapted for the end which we at present have in view. Those of Fox are entitled to rank far higher as speci
mens of oratory ; and indeed, for those who have purity of taste enough to relish the severer graces of a manly and practical eloquence, always drawing its materials from a vigorous and richly stored understanding, always animated by at least a calm and lofty feeling of truth and freedom, and sometimes inspired by a genuine and rapid enthusiasm, but never stooping to be graceful, nor pausing to gather ornaments on its way,—for minds which can appreciate eloquence like this, the speeches of Fox will form a treasure of models, in which they will not only find successful exemplifications of most of the principles of eloquence, but much that will remind them of the calmer moods of Demosthenes. But several others of our British statesmen, especially of those who flourished in the end of last century and the earliest years of this, deserve from the student of eloquence more industrious study than those two great men. Among these, we can do no more than name Grattan, Erskine, and Sheridan ; and we pause at the threshold of the present age, naming no man who is still alive.
But of the political orators who have preceded the present time both in the last century and this, by far the most remarkable, in a merely rhetorical point
of view,
were these three ; Chatham, Burke, and Canning.
Very many of Chatham’s speeches are unreported ; many of the earlier ones have reached us with much distortion ; and there are but a very few in which we can believe ourselves to be listening throughout to the exact words of the speaker. But enough remains to convince us that Chatham was the most powerful and striking political orator whom our country has ever produced. His celebrated youthful retort to the elder Horace Walpole bears unequivocal marks of being, in the shape in which we possess it, the manufacture of SamuelJohnson ; and we have scarcely any speech completely and genuinely reported, which was delivered before his fiftieth year. In the orations succeeding that time, our recollection of the speaker’s age and lofty position in the state prepares our minds to harmonize with the tone of address, and to consider that as noble boldness, which in a younger and meaner man might have received another name. The tone is never varied ; it is always uncompromising, stern, and admonitory : the speaker is not an advocate devising means to conciliate and persuade, but a preacher of truth and right, denouncing judgments on political transgression. Chatham’s mind never grew old ; to the last hour of his public life the feelings glowed as passionately, and prompted images as vivid, and alternately checked, and impelled, and transformed the language, in figures as abrupt and varied, as in the morning of his youth and dawning ambition ; the sickness and decay of the body were overcome by the resistless energy of the fiery soul ; and the British House of Lords trembled before the cripple who stood up feebly in the midst of them, to grow strong as he spoke by the impulse of his own fervent imagination. The idol of Chatham’s mind was the baronial constitution of England as confirmed in Magna Charta, which, indeed, with the Petition and Bill of Rights, he himself called the Englishman’s political bible : all the strong and diversified powers of his intellect, in observation, judgment, and rapidly convincing argument, and all the array of his chivalrously generous feelings, did continual homage at the one sacred shrine : attempts from below to widen the area of thc political edifice, that the mass of the Jleople might come in, the aristocratic Whig would have laughed to scorn : insidious endeavours from above and within to shake the pillars of the temple, roused him repeatedly to overwhelming indignation. His eloquence found its most favourable field of display in two questions of his time : the famous elections of W’ilkes for Middlesex, which were made the occasion of fierce debates as to the constitutional rights of the subject ; and the more
important discussions^on the American war. The former of these themes, in which Chatham stood forth as the champion of the people against the supposed usurpation of the House of Commons, drew from him some of his most electric flashes of passion and imagery. One is the speech in 1770, on the Marquis of Rockingham’s motion for an inquiry into the state of the nation ; in which occurs the splendid passage beginning with the bold prayer for the prevalence of discord, if freedom could not otherwise be preserved, thence passing to the parallel between the scriptural records and the charters of the English constitution, and ending with the stern allusion to the value which the Revolution of 1688 possessed as a warning to succeeding British monarchs. But it is to the American question that we owe his finest speeches ; and on this subject we have a series of harangues, exhibiting in admirable union the intellectual, the imaginative, and the passionate elements of oratory, and invaluable to the student, both for their high rank in these points of excellence, for the pointed nervousness of the style, and for the singular force and nature of the rhetorical figures,—indignant interrogation, sudden self-correction, and anxious and solemn repetition. The finest of all is undoubtedly the speech on the address to the throne in November 1777. But. no parliamentary speech whatever is more interesting, or more honourable to the speaker, than the extemporaneous address elicited from the old man in the same year, by the ministerial defence of the employment of the Indians in America. In the imperfectly reported speech wlâch he delivered on that memorable evening, his last in public life, when he fell down in convulsions, on rising to reply to the attacks of the Duke of Richmond, he related the whole history of the war with America ; he repeated the predictions which he had himself day after day pronounced as warnings to the state ; and, like a dying prophet reproaching an unbelieving generation, he followed his recital of every prediction by the words, “ And so it proved 1”
Burke’s speeches and political pamphlets compose by far the most valuable body of lessons in eloquence w hich our language possesses. They instruct us sometimes by those failures into which the orator was betrayed by his teeming, imaginative, and exciteable genius ; but they teach us at least as often by examples of the most signal and splendid success. As Burke, more than any other of our statesmen, nourished the ambition of rivalling ancient eloquence, so his works, in the variety of their oratorical qualities, and in the finish which they frequently exhibit, do unquestionably come nearer than any others to the ancient character. They are, it is true, in their prevailing manner, more like to the ornate and redundant elocution of Cicero, than to the severe simplicity of the great Athenian ; but some of their happiest images and thoughts are derived from Demosthenes, and some equally happy are not unworthy of him. Burke’s style, while it is highly argumentative, is distinguished, beyond that of any other political writer or speaker, for the continual distrust which it exhibits in the hearers’ ability or willingness to follow trains of pure argument : the imagination is constantly excited by illustration and imagery : and, to use our rhetorical terminology, the favourite argument is the example, instances real and fictitious being crowded upon each other, as if the speaker were resolutely determined to appropriate one to every individual who listened to him ; and the argument being at length usually closed by a strongly worded aphorism, sometimes true and as often erroneous, very seldom logically proved by the arguments which have preceded it, but always strikingly illustrated by them, and exhibited in the most conciliating and attractive light. Perhaps Burke’s oratorical skill and genius are not anywhere displayed so remarkably as in his Reflections on the Revolution of France, in which the writer, besides the prejudice to which he exposed himself by his sudden change of party, had another and stronger disadvantage
in 
his own mind; namely, that of defending and representing as paramount a series of principles in politics and legislation, which, if he had not substantively denied their truth, he had at least, in common with his party, always represented as subordinate to other principles which it was now his task to decry. But the man of genius did not shrink from the undertaking, and the powers of his remarkable mind bore him triumphantly through it ; for no discourse could have been more skilfully conducted, or better calculated to make a strong impression. He even labours again and again to enlist in his new cause those feelings in favour of constitutional freedom, which he had so long been accustomed to rally round him ; but he rests his hopes of success mainly on the excitement of other ideas and feelings, which he paints to the fancy in colours as bright as any in which his pencil was ever dipped. The horror of bloodshed, attachment to order, and fear of anarchy, now hold in the writer’s mind that prevailing place which had formerly belonged to the hatred of despotism and the love of freedom : the sentiment of chivalrous devotion to kings and ladies is aroused by that beautifully and pathetically romantic picture of the Queen of France as the morning star : the departure of the ancient days of knightly strength and honour is seriously and warmly deplored ; their very vices, it is declared, have given place to others worse, and their religious superstition is boldly preferred to the philosophical superstition of the modern sceptics. Among Burke’s speeches, the masterpieces are admittedly those on the impeachment of Warren Hastings, which compose a field too wide to be here surveyed. Of the minor speeches there is scarcely one that is not both characteristic and highly instructive. None of them possesses greater variety than the speech of 1775 for Conciliation with America ; the beauties of which it is not easy to select :—the vision of the guardian angel, who, drawing aside a curtain, displays the glories of Britain in sunshine, darkened but by one faint and distant spot (an image which, like many others of the same speaker, hovers on the very verge of poetry, and can scarcely have been successful in the House of Commons) ; the picturesque description of the kingdom of the backwoodsmen ; tlle animated appeals to English freedom and free habits, like that in which he tells his hearers, that if they preach unconstitutional doctrines to the Americans, their English speech will betray them ; the bold figures by which he introduces the resolutions which he was to move ; and the classical image of the temple of peace, with which the oration closes. The speech of 1780, on Economical Reform, is at once manly, practical, and well reasoned, and full of the most happily-conceived ridicule. The celebrated speech at Bristol, and that on Fox’s East India Bill, although possessing high oratorical merit, and abounding with fine passages, are yet less valuable to the student than to the politician. The speech on the Nabob of Arcot, s Debts exhibits Burke at once in his full strength, and with much of his weakness ; it is full of pertinent inferences from granted facts ; rich in picturesque oriental imagery ; and adorned by a profusion of oratorical figures, varying in character and success from the grand image of Hyder Ali and the cloud (after Demosthenes), down to the familiar one which represents the minister as sowing corruption broadcast, and the disgusting one in which one of the orator’s most disliked adversaries is compared to the most unclean of animals.
Of Canning we mean to say very little, besides recommending his speeches to the student as exceedingly instruc-l tive lessons. They are in the hands, and familiar to the 1  recollection, of every one ; and no estimate of their merits could be complete which should not analyse, by way of comparison, tlle oratory of one or more of his rivals who have not yet quitted the scene. In Canning’s speeches, the
orator seldom rises into strong passion himself, and never elevates the audience along with him : the loftiest atmosphere in which he ever moves is that of noble and generous feeling, expressed with warmth enough to kindle its glow in the breasts of others, but never so warmly as Undeprive either them or the speaker of perfect self-possession. The direct and ultimate appeal to the imagination is practised much oftener and more boldly, and, in many beautiful and poetical pictures, is conducted with singular taste and success : a keen and playful wit, now veiled in irony, now half disguised in bitter sarcasm, and now shedding a fiery shotver of open invective, is everywhere present, and almost everywhere holds a prominent place ; and the oration, con
sidered as an address to the understanding, is always clear and well reasoned, generally close and pointed, and often, in dealing with difficult materials, distinguished by consummate rhetorical skill. Of Canning’s ingenuity in debating a delicate and hazardous question, we can desire no better instance than his eloquent and most skilful argument against Parliamentary Reform, delivered at the election dinner at Liverpool in 1818. The most passionate specimens of his eloquence are contained in some of his speeches on Catholic Emancipation ; and his genius probably nowhere displayed its powers so commandingly as in two of its latest efforts, the speech and reply on the projected invasion of Portugal by Spain, delivered in December 1826.    (b. l.)
RHINE, one of the circles of which the present kingdom of Bavaria is composed, and what till the treaty of Vienna in 1815 formed the French department of Mont Tonnere, and parts of the departments of the Lower Rhine and the Saar. It is situated on the left bank of the river from which it takes the name, and is bounded on the northwest by the Prussian territory ; on the north by Hesse Darmstadt ; on the east by the river Rhine, which divides it from Baden, and by France ; and on the west by the Prussian province of Saarbruche. It extends over 2155 square miles, and in 1834 contained 554,932 inhabitants, living in forty-four cities and towns, and in 665 villages. The number of the Catholics and Protestants is nearly equal. The province is divided, according to the former system introduced by France, into four departments or districts, and these are subdivided into cantons and communes. The face of the country is generally mountainous, with valleys between of considerable fertility ; but none of the elevations exceeds 2200 feet. A large portion of the circle is covered with woods. Sufficient corn for the consumption is produced. Much wine is made ; but little care being devoted to that article, it is almost wholly applied to internal consumption. There are some large mining operations in iron, and coals are found in abundance. Some mines of silver are now at work on a small scale ; and several of quicksilver, copper, lead, and cobalt. Pot and pearl ashes are made extensively ; and there are numerous saw-mills in operation. There are considerable manufactures of woollen, and also of hardware ; and linen and cotton are manufactured to a small extent.
Rhine,
Lmcer,
a department of France, formed out of the German dominion of Alsace, and the territories of the former princes who were sovereigns of the several subdivisions. It is situated between 48.12. and 49.8. of north latitude, and between 6. 49. and 8. 9. of east longitude. It is bounded on the north by the department of the Moselle, and by the Bavarian province of the Rhine, from which it is separated by the river Lauter. On the east the Rhine is the boundary which divides it from the duchy of Baden. On the south it joins the department of the Upper Rhine, and on the west that of the Vosges and of the Meurthe. Itextendsover 1,161,862acres, equal to 1831 square miles; and it contains 561,859 inhabitants of German origin, and the greater part of whom speak only that language. Though the majority adhere to the Catholic Church, the two sects of Protestants are numerous ; the Lutherans being estimated at 160,000, and the Calvinists at 28,000. The eastern part is a rich level plain extending along the side of the Rhine, and watered by small streams issuing from the hills in the western part, and emptying themselves into that stream, after fertilizing the soil. The state of culture is good ; and the land, cultivated like a garden, produces most abundant crops. In proceeding westward from the river, the ground rises gradually from hills 300 feet in height to
mountains between 2500 and 4000 feet of elevation. In this mountainous district the soil is stony or sandy, and of ungrateful kind ; but it abounds with extensive and valuable woods, whilst in the valleys some rich pasture-land is found. In the lower districts the chief bread-corn grown is wheat or winter barley, on the hilly parts rye and oats ; but the whole department has a surplus of grain to aid the districts around them with one twelfth of its produce. On the levels great crops are raised of hemp, flax, tobacco, mustard, aniseed, hops, coriander seeds, poppy and other oil plants, and abundance of madder scarcely inferior to that of Holland. The hills afford fuel and timber, and their sides are covered with vineyards yielding abundance of wine of various kinds, and some very highly esteemed. Apples, pears, and plums, are abundant everywhere. Wine and fruit are considerable branches of the export trade. The mineral productions are insignificant, and confined to small portions of iron and some coals. There are various manufactories carried on in other parts of the district, but the chief are in and about Strasburg. They are ironmongery and firearms (including cannon), linen-weaving, spinning and weaving cottons, tanning leather, making paper, and some porcelain, and several minuter commodities. The Rhine facilitates commerce with Germany, with Holland, and with Switzerland, all of which branches are on the increase. The department elects four deputies to the legislative chamber. It contains four arrondissements, thirty-three cantons, and 554 communes. Strasburg is the capital, with a population in 1836 of 57,885.
Rhine,
Upper,
a department in the south-east of France, formed out of Upper Alsace, the Sundgau, and the territory of Mulhausen. It is situated between 47. 27. and 48. 14. of north latitude, and between 6. 41. and 7. 27. of cast longitude. It extends over 1586 square miles, and comprehends three arrondissements, twenty-nine cantons, and 489 communes. The population amounts to 447,019. They are generally of the German race, and speak a corrupt dialect of that language, very little differing from that spoken in Switzerland. They are for the most part of the Romish religion; but there are 40,000 Calvinists, 16,000 Lutherans, 3000 Menonites, and about 10,000 Jews, all equally recognised by the government. It is bounded on the north by the department of the Lower Rhine, on the east that river divides it from Baden, on the south it touches on Switzerland and on the Doubs. and tile departments of the Upper Saone and of the Vosges bound it on the west. It is generally a hilly, in some parts a mountainous district, especially on the western side, where the range of the Vosges enters and approaches the Jura Mountains. The chief rivers are the Rhine and the llle, both of which are navigable. There are several small internal lakes, some of them in very elevated situations, especially the Black and the White Lakes, the former of which is three miles in circuit, and tlle latter said to be 1000 feet
in depth. There are also many small canals, some to facilitate conveyance, and others to promote irrigation. The agriculture is conducted with a rigid adherence to old customs. The corn does not suffice for the consumption. Wheat is only grown in a few favoured spots ; the greater portion of bread-corn is rye, and potatoes are extensively cultivated as a substitute for grain. The valleys afford good fattening and dairy land ; but the black cattle are for the most part brought from Germany when young, and on the pastures here yield good butter, cheese, and meat The breed of sheep has been much neglected. The horses are a small race, and not numerous. The hills have extensive vineyards, and produce abundance of wine, some of which is good, and forms an article of considerable export trade. The best sorts are those furnished in the vicinity of Colmar, Turkheim, and Befort. There are a great number of fruit-trees, but especially of cherries, from which a distillation is made ; and the spirit called
Mrchenwasser
is highly valued in Switzerland. This is a mining district, which formerly produced silver, copper, and lead ; but the operations are now chiefly directed to obtaining iron and coal. These are the foundations of the chief manufactures, which employ a great number of hands in making cast and hammered iron, and ironmongery goods of various descriptions. There are several paper-mills, and many for spinning both cotton and flax. There are also manufactures of wool and hosiery. Much potash is also made, and some porcelain and glass. These are the basis of what trade exists. The capital of the department is the city of Colmar, with 15,958 inhabitants in 1836.
RHINOCEROS, a genus of quadrupeds belonging to the order of belluæ. See Mammalia.
RHODE Island, one of the United States of North America, is bounded on the north and east by Massachusetts, on the south by the Atlantic Ocean, and on tlle west by Connecticut. It is forty-nine miles in length by twenty-nine in breadth, and contains an area of one thousand three hundred and fifty square miles, which lie between 41. 22. and 42. 3. of north latitude, and longitude 71. 6. and 71. 38. west from Greenwich. This portion of country includes what was formerly known by the name of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, originally constituting two plantations or provinces. Compared with its limited extent, Rhode Island is a very diversified state. In the north-west part the country is hilly and broken, but it becomes gradually level towards the Atlantic Ocean. The state may be divided into three natural sections : the first, constituting four fifths of the whole, is a pretty hilly parallelogram, lying west from Narragansett Bay ; the second consists of the delightful islands of Narragansett Bay ; and the third section is a small irregular slip lying along Massachusetts, and east from Narragansett. This bay extends from north to south through nearly the whole length of the state, and embosoms a number of islands, of which the most important are Rhode Island, Connecticut, Prudence, Patience, Hope, Dyer’s, and Hog Islands. Block Island, in the Atlantic, lying south of the state, is the most southerly land belonging to it. These islands, and the country bordering on the bay, are of great fertility, and are celebrated for their fine cattle, their numerous flocks of sheep, and the abundance and excellence of their butter and cheese. The state generally is better adapted to grazing than tillage. A large portion of tlle western and northwestern part of it has a thin and lean soil, which affords small crops of New England productions. Cider is made for exportation. Corn, rye, barley, oats, and in some places wheat, are produced in quantities sufficient for home consumption ; and the various kinds of grasses, fruits, culinary roots and plants, are in great abundance and perfection. In some parts iron is found in large quantities ; copper is also met with ; and the state abounds in limestone, particularly the county of Providence. Anthracite coal is wrought on the island which gives name to the state, but it- is not held in high estimation. There are several rivers in this state, but their courses are short : the principal are called Pawtucket, Providence, Pawtuxet, Pawcatuc, and Wood Rivers. These, and also the bays, swarm with many varieties of excellent fish. The climate is as salubrious as that of any other part of America, and more temperate than that of the other New England states, particularly on the islands where the ocean breezes have the usual effect of tempering the heat of summer and moderating the cold of winter.
The island called Rhode Ieland, situated in the bay of Narragansett, and which gives name to the state, is about fifteen miles in length from north to south, and three and a half in breadth. It is divided into three townshlps, Newport, Portsmouth, and Middletown. This island is highly celebrated for its salubrity, and here numbers of invalids resort from southern climates. It is also of great fertility, and noted for its breeds of sheep, neat cattle, and horses. The whole is under high cultivation, and in some months of the year presents so delightful an appearance as to have obtained for it the name ofthe Eden of America. Long. 71. 20. W. Lat. 4L 25. N.
In no state in the Union is so large a proportion of the population and capital employed in manufactures as in Rhode Island. The principal article is cotton goods, for the manufacture of which there are above one hundred mills, many of them extensive establishments. For the year ending September 1836, there were eighty sets of machinery in operation for the manufacture of other kinds of goods, including broad cloths, satinets, jeans, linseys, and the like. The quantity of wool produced was 265,261 pounds, valued at 133,957 dollars. Iron, ardent spirits, and some other articles, are likewise amongst the manufactures of Rhode Island. The exports consist chiefly of flax-seed, lumber, horses, cattle, beef, pork, fish, poultry, and cotton and linen goods. For the year ending September 1836, the exports of domestic produce were to the amount of 212,297 dollars, and of foreign produce 16,123 dollars; the total value of exports being 228,420 dollars, which appears to be considerably less than in some previous years. The value of the imports for the same period was 555,199 dollars. The amount of shipping of this state may be reckoned at about fifty thousand tons ; but so rapidly have commerce and manufactures extended, that a period of only a couple of years is sufficient to produce an increase in these branches of industry which could not have been looked for in such a limited space of time. In 1837 the banks were sixty-two in number, having specie to the amount of 243,482 dollars, a circulation of 1,864,132 dollars, and a capital of 9,837,171 dollars.
Amongst the institutions of Rhode Island is Brown University, at Providence, a flourishing seminary. Academies are established in all the principal towns, and
tlle
state pays ten thousand dollars per annum for the support of free schools. The most numerous religious sect is that of the Baptists, who have about eighteen churches. There are, besides, the usual religious diversities which characterise a North American state, including many Friends.
Among the public works of this state may be mentioned the New York, Providence, and Boston Railway, extending from Stonington in Connecticut to Providence in Rhode Island. About forty miles of it lie in the latter state. It is connected with another railroad, and forms part of a line from Boston to New York. Other works of tlle kind are in progress.
The population of Rhode Island in 1839 may be estimated as amounting to at least 125,000. The capital of the state is Providence, an account of which will be found under that head.
Newport, which shares metropolitan honours with the capital, being the seat of government every alternate session, is beautifully situated on the south-west end of the island of Rhode Island, five miles from the sea, and in latitude 4L 29. north, and longitude 71. 21. west. The town lies north and south, upon a gradual ascent east from the water, and exhibits a beautiful view from the harbour and the neighbouring hills. The principal street is more than a mile in length. The harbour, which spreads westward in front of the town, is one of the finest in the world, and spacious enough to allow a large fleet to anchor and ride in perfect security. The entrance is safe and easy, and it is defended by three strong forts. Newport contains a state-house, a jail, several banks and insurance offices, a valuable public library, and houses of worship for most of the religious denominations that are found in New England. A very elegant building is appropriated to the library. This town is famous for the salubrity of its climate, and more noted than any other American town for tlle variety and excellence of its fresh fish. Newport was first settled in 1636, and before the American revolution had attained to considerable commercial importance. During that war it suffered severely, being for a long time occupied by the British. It maintains some trade with the East Indies, Europe, and Cuba ; but the most important branch of its commerce is the coasting trade with the middle and southern states. Its fisheries are very valuable. The population of Newport in 1839 may be estimated at about 10,000.
Pawtucket is a flourishing town, partly situated in that part of this state called North Providence, partly in Massachusetts. It is noted for the number and extent of its manufactories, which are situated near a fine cascade on the river Pawtucket. This town contains several public buildings, two or three banks, more than twelve cotton factories, and as many others of different kinds. This is reckoned one of the most flourishing manufacturing villages in the United States. The population may be about 5000. Bristol is a neat commercial town, situated on the east side of Narragansett Bay. It has a safe and commodious harbour, owns a good deal of shipping, and is a place of considerable trade. The population at present ( 1839) may be about 4000. Warren, South Kingston, East Greenwich, Smithfield, Portsmouth, and Warwick, are the only other places of any note. The last-named town contains above 6000 inhabitants.
The settlement of this state was commenced at Providence in the year 1636, by Roger Williams, a person of some celebrity in the annals of America. He was banished from Massachusetts on account of the religious doctrines which he preached. Two years afterwards the settlement of the island of Rhode Island was begun. In 1643 Williams went to England, and in the following year obtained a charter by which Rhode Island and Providence Plantations were united under one government. This writ continued in force till 1663, when a new charter was granted by Charles II., and this document has ever since formed the
basis of the government. This state is the only one in the Union which is without a written constitution, according to the American form of these things. The legislative power is vested in a general assembly, consisting of a senate and a house of representatives. The latter consists of seventy-two members, six from Newport, four from each of the towns of Providence, Portsmouth, and Warwick, and two from each of the other towns in the state. They are elected semi-annually in April and August. The senate consists of ten members, who are elected annually in April. The executive power is vested in a governor ; and a lieutenant-governor is elected along with him, on whom the duties of the executive devolve in case of the office of governor being vacated. The other officers of government are a secretary of state, a treasurer, and an attorney-general. The general assembly meets four times a year; at Newport on the first Wednesday in May, at the same place in June ; at Providence and South Kingston alternately in October; and in January at East Greenwich, Bristol, or Providence. The judiciary power is vested in a supreme court, and a court of common pleas for each of the five counties. AU the judges are appointed annually by the general assembly. A chief justice and two associate justices preside in the supreme court. Each of the courts of common pleas comprises five judges. Rhode Island has a well-constituted militia force, which is called out for duty twice a year.    (r. r. r.)
RHODES, an island celebrated from the remotest antiquity as the seat of commerce and of naval power, as well as of literature and the arts ; but now reduced from its ancient splendour to a state of extreme depression and poverty, by the devastations of war and the tyranny of its Turkish rulers. It is situated in the Mediterranean, near the coast of Asia Minor, and is about twelve leagues long from north to south, and about six broad. It is of a triangular form ; and its circumference is commonly estimated at about forty-four leagues.
The island is diversified in its surface, and contains in its centre an elevated mountain named Artemira1 which commands a view of the whole island. It is so steep that it is impossible to ascend it on horseback, and a person clambering up on foot would not be able to reach the summit in less than four hours. From this height there is a most extensive prospect of the whole island around its base ; of the elevated coast of Caramania on the north ; on the northwest the Archipelago, studded with its numerous islands ; on the south-west is seen Mount Ida, veiled in clouds ; and on the south and south-east the vast expanse of waters which wash the African shore. Here and there on the island are seen ranges of moderately elevated hills, on which are found numbers of ancient pines, planted by the hand of nature : these forests were formerly very thick, but they are now greatly thinned by the Turks, who cut them down, and take no care to plant others in their place. On the farther side of this nearest range of hills the surface of the island falls lower, and several hills in the form of amphitheatres extend their bases as far as the sea. In more than half the island
the land slopes towards the sea-shore by a gentle and scarcely perceptible declivity.
Rhodes was famed in ancient times for its delightful climate, and it still maintains its former reputation. The air is pure and salubrious, and there is hardly a day throughout the year in which the sun is not visible. The winds are liable to little variation ; they blow from the west often with great violence for nine months in the year, and at other times from the north ; and they moderate the summer heats, which are chiefly felt during the months of July and August, when the hot winds blow from the coast of Caramania. There is no frost or snow during the winter, which is uncommonly mild and humid.
Rhodes, in addition to its fine climate, is blessed with a fertile soil, and produces a variety of the finest fruits and vegetables; and if the industry of the inhabitants corresponded to their natural advantages, it might possess all the materials of wealth and commerce. But they have long groaned under the iron rod of Turkish oppression, by which those happy abodes are now converted into scenes of devastation. “ The gardens,” says Dr Clarke,@@1 “ are filled with delicious fruit. Here, as in Cos, every gale is scented with the most powerful fragrance, which is wafted from groves of orange and citron trees. Numberless aromatic herbs exhale at the same time such profuse odour that the whole atmosphere seems impregnated with a spicy perfume.” A single river, named Candura, which name it gives to the cape in whose vicinity it discharges itself into the sea, waters the interior of the island ; but numerous smaller streams and rivulets, which take their rise from the shady summit of Mount Artemira, water the surrounding plains and valleys. The inhabitants have a great taste for gardens ; and around the villages are several cultivated fields and orchards, containing fig, pomegranate, and orange trees. The peach-tree, which is said by Pliny to have produced no fruit in his time, is now more fruitful ; but the fruit is deficient in flavour, from the inhabitants not knowing the art of ingrafting trees. The palm-tree is as flourishing as in ancient times. In the uncultivated valleys which abound throughout the island, wild roses hang around the foot of tlie rocks ; beds of flowing myrrh perfume the air ; laurel roses adorn the banks of the rivulets with their gaudy flowers ; and the fertile soil is besides covered with a profusion of weeds and useless plants. Fine trees formerly crowned the highest mountains, the resin from which supplied abundantly the wants of the navy ; but they have been generally cut down by the Turks. On the sloping hills fig-trees, carob-trees, and others both useful and agreeable, still grow abundantly: the vine also holds its place, and produces a species of wine which was highly valued by the ancients, and is still extolled on account of its delicacy and perfume. The valleys afford rich pastures, and the plains produce every species of grain : the wheat is of an excellent quality, the ear weighty, and filled with the finest grain, as white as snow, and which makes excellent bread ; and, but for the extortions of its barbarian rulers, the island might be the seat of agriculture, as well as commerce, and might export large quantities of corn. But the Turks are lazy and ignorant, and the Greeks are loaded with
corvées ;
and, being further discouraged by the fear of being robbed of the produce of their labours, leave these rich plains unimproved.
There are two cities in the island, namely, Rhodes, the capital, which is inhabited chiefly by Turks, with a small proportion of Jews ; and the ancient Lindus, which is now reduced to a hamlet, situated on the east side of the island, nearly in the centre. It is entirely peopled by Greeks, who are almost all employed in commerce ; and its harbour, which is far from spacious, is much frequented by the small craft of the country, which thence export the produce of the island, and bring back foreign goods in exchange. A few are employed in rural labours. There are five villages occupied by Turks, and by a small number of Jews ; and there are five towns and forty-one villages inhabited by Greeks. According to Savery, the number of families in the island is 7300 ; namely, of Turks 4700, of Greeks 2500, and of Jews 100. Estimating five persons in each family, the population of the island will amount to 36,500. Turner, on the other hand, a later traveller, estimates the inhabitants at only 20,000 ; namely, 14,000 Greeks, who are dispersed in forty-two villages, and 6000 Turks, with a small mixture of Jews, chiefly residing in the capital.
Rhodes has long groaned under the despotic rule of the barbarous Turks, by which the people have been impoverished, and the country depopulated. The pachas, to whom is delegated the supreme rule of the grand signior, generally use their authority for the purpose of extortion, and accumulate riches by robbing the unfortunate inhabitants committed to their charge. According to Savery1 the revenue in Rhodes is derived from numerous taxes, namely, a poll-tax, a land-tax, the tithe of the crops, a port duty, a tax on houses, cattle, on salt, on vineyards, on wax, at tolls, and the farming of bagnios. But it is of little moment what taxes are established. There is no restraint on the power of the pacha, who seizes on the people’s substance wherever he sees it, and from whose vigilant rapacity no accumulation of property can be concealed. “ Ask not,” says Savery1 in his letter to his correspondent, “ what is become of that powerful people, who, taking advantage of their happy situation, of their forests, harbours, and of the fertility of their soil, crossed the Mediterranean with their victorious fleets. Liberty is no more ; and genius and science exist only where they are encouraged by her smile. The Turkish government has filled up the measure of their misfortunes ; and a few wretches, without commerce, arts, or industry, because they are without property, wander here and there over the desolated plains of the country of their ancestors.”
The antiquities in Rhodes are not of an earlier date than the residence of the knights of Malta. The remains of their fine old fortress are still to be seen, namely, a venerable moated castle of great size and strength, so fortified as to seem almost impregnable. The cells of the knights are yet entire, forming a street within the works ; and near these is the cathedral or chapel, where doors of sycamore wood, curiously carved, are preserved in their original state. The sanctuary has been converted by the Turks into a magazine for military stores. Dr Clarke observed several inscriptions at Rhodes on marble altars of a cylindrical form, adorned with sculptured wreaths and festoons, supported by rams’ heads. Several vases of great antiquity were also dug up in a garden, of which heobtainedone with upright handles.
Rhodes was one of the most distinguished states of ancient Greece. Its early history is either lost in the darkness of antiquity, or it is disfigured by fabulous traditions. The Rhodians were early celebrated as expert navigators ; but it was not till the time of the Peloponnesian war that they were known as an independent state. The city was afterwards built, and the people were at this time rent into two factions, one of whom favoured the Athenians, the other the Spartans. The latter acquired the ascendency, and an aristocracy was established. The island was afterwards oppressed by Mausolus, king of Caria, and the inhabitants applying to the Athenians, by their assistance regained their liberty. From this period to that of Alexander the Great, the Rhodians enjoyed uninterrupted tran-
1
@@@ Travels in Europe and Asia, chap. viii.
quillity. They voluntarily submitted to that conqueror, from whom they experienced great favour ; but no sooner did they hear of his death than they took up arms against the Macedonian garrisons, and expelled tlιem. About this period the city of Rhodes and the inhabitants suffered severely from a dreadful inundation, which was accompanied with violent showers of rain ; and hailstones of an extraordinary size beat down many houses, and killed a number of the inhabitants. By the bursting of the wall the extraordinary accumulation of water was allowed a free passage to the sea, by which the danger was removed. From the effects of this unexpected disaster the Rhodians quickly recovered, by their close application to navigation and trade ; and during the wars that took place among Alexander’s successors they observed a strict neutrality, and gradually grew to be one of the most opulent states of the age. They were, however, connected in strict alliance with Ptolemy of Egypt, with whom Antigonus being at war, he demanded succours of them, which they refusing, drew on themselves the full weight of his hostility. He accordingly sent his son Demetrius with an immense armament provided with all sorts of machines for war and sieges, and an army of 40,000 troops, who laid siege to their city. This remarkable siege lasted for a year, and called forth on the part of the Rhodians the most brilliant efforts of valour and patriotism. Demetrius, with all his knowledge of the known resources of war, and all his skill to invent new machines of unheard-of power and magnitude, was finally repulsed, with a prodigious slaughter of his bravest troops, and the loss of his military fame. The Rhodians after this siege applied themselves as before to commerce and navigation, and Rhodes became a flourishing city. In the year 203 before the Christian era the Rhodians were engaged in a war with Philip of Macedon, in which being assisted by the Romans, it was terminated to their advantage. In the wars that followed with the Romans and Antiochus, and afterwards with Mithridates, the Rhodians were useful allies of the former, whom they assisted with their naval power. In the civil wars of Rome they aided Pompey against Cæsar; and after his death they joined Ciesar, which drew on them the resentment of Cassius, by whom their city was taken and plundered. Their privileges were restored by Marc Antony ; but the island was finally reduced into a Roman province during the reign of Vespasian. Rhodes continued under the Roman dominion, and was little heard of in history, till, on the downfall of the eastern empire, the island became one of the last retreats of the knights of Jerusalem, under whose rule it became illustrious by its heroic resistance to the Turkish conquerors, then at the utmost height of their power. They baffled by their valour the efforts of Mahommed II., the conqueror of Constantinople ; and they sustained a memorable and sanguinary siege from Solyman the Great, who invested the city with a fleet of 400 sail and 140,000 troops. He was often repulsed by the brave knights with great slaughter ; and he only made his way over the ruins of the city by the effect of numbers. A capitulation was at length agreed upon, by which the island was surrendered to tlle Turks, under whose dominion it has ever since continued.
Rhodes is the capital of the above island, and stands on the site of the ancient city, though it is not above the fourth part of its extent. It is situated to the north-east of the island ; and from a distance, its advantageous position at the extremity of a promontory, its magnificent buildings, the strength and solidity of its walls, and its towers planted on rising rocks, still impress an idea of its ancient grandeur. The interior of the city does not correspond to its outward appearance. Those ancient streets which were laid out with such art and on so great a scale, and that uniform series of buildings which were monuments of taste, have been succeeded by narrow winding streets, and buildings without grace, ornament, or regularity. There are still some monuments which testify that the island was once possessed by the knights of Rhodes, namely, their arms, and the several busts of the grand-masters, which were engraved on marble, and still adorn the fronts of several buildings ; the walls and towers also bear marks of their heroic resistance to the Ottoman arms. But there is no longer any monument of its grandeur in times of antiquity ; there is no theatre, no magnificent temples nor spacious porticoes. The statues, colossi, and paintings for which Rhodes was famed in the early agcs of Greece and Rome, have all been removed. Not a vestige is to be seen of the colossus described as seventy cubits high, and reckoned one of the wonders of the world. The streets bear everywhere marks of desolation. One half of the houses in the city are in ruins, and one half in the suburbs are uninhabited, though those occupied by the Greek inhabitants are beautiful, consisting of good stone houses, with gardens well stocked with all the fruits of the climate. On the declivity of the neighbouring hills are about 400 country houses, the residences of the principal inhabitants. The principal buildings which remain are the church of St John, which is become the principal mosque ; the hospital, whence the charity of the knights was liberally dispensed to the faithful from all quarters of the world, which has been transformed into public granaries ; the palace of the grand-master, falling into ruins and almost deserted ; and the senate-house, which still contains some marbles and ancient columns. Of the streets the best and widest is a long street which preserves the name of Rue des Chevaliers. It is perfectly straight, and formed of old houses, on which remain the armorial bearings of the members of the order. On some of these buildings are still seen the arms of the pope.
Rhodes has at present two harbours. The least of these, towards the east, is named Dorca, and its entrance is obstructed by a barrier of rocks, so as to admit the entrance of one ship at a time. It is sufficiently sheltered from the winds by high moles ; but by the negligence of the Turks the sand has been suffered to accumulate until the entrance has been gradually choked up ; and merchant-ships can only enter after being obliged previously to unload their cargoes. The other harbour is larger, and bears the name of Rhodes ; here frigates of thirty guns may anchor, and are sheltered from the west winds, though they are in danger of being dashed against the walls of the city, or the rocks, from the north and north-east winds. The two harbours are separated by a mole which runs obliquely into the sea ; the two extremities are defended by towers 800 feet apart, while in the centre of the mole is a square tower 120 feet high. There is a dock-yard, which, like every other department of the public service, is a scene of disorder and corruption. The population consists of 5000 Turks and about 1000 Jews. Long. 28. 12. 15. E. Lat. 36. 26. N. (f.)
RHOMBOÏDES, in
Geometry,
a quadrilateral figure whose opposite sides and angles are equal, but which is neither equilateral nor equiangular.
RHOMBUS, in
Geometry,
an oblique-angled parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure, whose sides are equal and parallel, but the angles unequal, two of the opposite ones being obtuse and two acute.
RHOMB Solid consists of two equal and right cones joined together at their bases.
RHONE, a department of France, formed out of the ancient districts of the Lyonnois and the Beaujolais. It is situated between 45. 26. and 46. 25. of north latitude, and between 4. 12. and 4. 37. of east longitude. It extends over 1090 square miles, and is divided into two arrondissements, which in the year 1836 contained twenty-five cantons and 253 communes, with 482,024 inhabitants, who mostlyadhere to the Catholic Church. The face of the country is irregular, in all parts hilly, and in some mountainous. The vales
between the several elevations are narrow, and have a soil ' poor and stony, except in that division on the rivers Saone and Rhone which includes some level tracts of greater extent, well cultivated, adorned with fine trees, and presenting a mixture of corn-fields, meadows, and vineyards. The chief rivers are the Rhone and the Saone, the latter of which falls into the former near Lyons, having received the water of the Izeron1 the Garon, the Gier, with that of several smaller streams, which empty themselves at length into the Mediterranean Sea. Both the Rhone and the Saone are navigable through the whole of their course within this department. The climate is mild, but, from the vicinity of the mountains, is very variable, and from the same cause vegetation is late in the spring. The productions are, the common domestic animals, wax, honey, and abundance of game, wild fowl, and fish. The produce of corn is dcficient for tlle annual supply by about six weeks’ consumption. Hemp, flax, poppies, rapeseed, saffron, almonds, chestnuts, and potatoes, are extensively grown. The vine is extensively cultivated, and those on the banks of both the Saone and Rhone have, under a variety of names taken from the respective districts, acquired great celebrity. There are some, but not considerable, mines of copper, and others of vitriol and of coal. The manufacturing industry is great. The silk manufacture is the most extensive, and is chiefly carried on in and around the city of Lyons, the capital of the department.
Rhone,
Mouths of the,
a department in the south of
France, formed out of the western part of the ancient province. It extends in north latitude from 43. 12. to 44. L, and in east longitude from 4. 18. to 4. 46., comprehending 2003 square miles, or 512,991 hectares, equal to 1,282,382 English acres. It is bounded on the north by the department of Vaucluse, on the east by that of the Var, on the south by the Mediterranean, and on the west by the department of Gard. It is divided into three arrondissements, and these into twenty-seven cantons and 106 communes, containing, in 1836, 362,325 inhabitants. They chiefly adhere to the Romish church, though there are about 5000 Protestants, and in the city of Marseilles many Jews. They speak a peculiar patois, nearly the same as, in the time of the Troubadours, was the written language of Provence.
The surface of the eastern and southern portions of the department is mountainous. A range of hills extends from the department ofthe Var. Ofone of them, San Venture, the height is 3120 feet. In the northern part is a chain of hills extending from Vaucluse, beginning on the banks of the Durance, and stretching from east to west to the neighbourhood of the Rhone, and rising to the height of 2500 feet above the level of the sea. The south-west part is wholly a level plain, full of morasses, and including the island of Camargue and the island Plan, in which, though some spots are fertile, yet the greater portion exhibits either heaps of pebbles or unhealthy marshes. The river Rhone is the chief stream, into which many others empty themselves before it reaches the sea. The navigation of that river is hazardous on account of its having three outlets, the passages through which are very variable, sometimes one being passable, and then in a few days nearly closed, when another is opened. To remedy this inconvenience, a canal has been opened from Arles to the small haven of Bouc, near the sea. There are several smaller canals, which serve partly for the purpose of communication, and in some measure for those of irrigation. One of the most important public works recently undertaken in France is the navigable canal which terminates in this department. It connects together the tw o great rivers the Rhine and the Rhone. It was begun in 1804, and was originally called the Canal Napoleon : it was afterwards designated the Canal of Monsieur ; and it now bears the more appropriate name of the Canal of the Rhine and Rhone. It was completed in 1832, at an expense
of'
26,640,000 francs, or about L.l,200,000. The whole length is about 210 miles; and in its progress it comes into direct communication with other great rivers. It is divided into four portions. The first commences at the Saone, and proceeds to Dole, where it joins the Doubs-The second portion is connected with Orchamps, Besançon, Baume, Clival, Lisle, and Vougeancourt, where it terminates. The third portion passes by Montbeliard, Bu-rogne, Valdieu, Mulhausen, Brisach, and Grapenstadt, where the canal enters the river Ille, which falls into the Rhine half a mile above Strasburg. The fourth part consists of branches from Mulhausen to Basel and Huningen, fed by water from the Rhine at the latter place. There is a sanguine anticipation that this last branch will form a cheap communication between Switzerland and the Mediterranean. In one part of its progress it communicates with the Seine, and is thus adapted to supply articles of great weight and little original cost, such as iron, w'ood, and stone, to the city of Paris.
As nearly one third of the surface of this department, consisting of mountains, small lakes, and morasses, is uncultivated, it does not produce a sufficient supply of com for its own consumption. The corn is not thrashed, but, as in other warm countries, is trodden out by oxen. Neither cows nor horses are numerous, though on the island of Camargue many of tlle latter, of a small race, are bred, almost in a state of wildness. The sheep are numerous, and are moved to the hills or to the plains, according to the state of the pasturage. The chief agricultural productions on which the department depends for procuring the means of subsistence, are oil, wine, and silk. The olive-trees are abundant, but some severe w, inters have destroyed many of them, and diminished the price of oil one third.
Besides wine, the vineyards yield a great quantity of raisins of various excellent descriptions, which form an important source of wealth, as do other dried fruits, especially plums. A large portion of the grapes is converted into brandy. The cultivation of silk is very much diffused, but nowhere an exclusive pursuit, and does not yield more than 100,000 pounds of raw silk. The sea-fishery gives employment to a great number of persons ; and salt being plentifiιlly produced by natural evaporation, much of tbe fish taken in this department is cured for exportation. The only mines are those of coal ; nor does their annual produce exceed 5000 tons. There are manufactures of silk, cotton, and other articles, chiefly confined to tlie cities of Marseilles and Aix, which likewise carry on the principal export trade, including the productions already noticed, and also figs, almonds, capers, coral, and essences of flowers, together with wool.
RHUBARB. The drug well known by this name is the root of somespecies of
Rheum,
an important genus of the natural order
Polygonacea,
Juss., and referred to
Enneandria Trigynia
in the Linnæan classification. The roots of all the species are thick and fleshy, generally a good deal branched, and striking deep into the earth. The leaves and stems are annual. The leaves, which are radical and petiolate, rise in spring, coming up in a thick head folded together, and gradually expanding. The footstalks of the leaves are thick, fleshy, and juicy, varying in length in the different species from a few inches to two feet. The leaves themselves are spreading, and very large, being sometimes two feet in diameter. The flowering stems begin to rise at the end of spring, come into flower in June, and ripen their seeds in August and September. The flowers are in a large terminal panicle or compound raceme. They consist of a coloured six parted perianth. The seeds are three cornered, winged, and have the withered perianth adhering to their base. The rhubarbs are extensively cultivated in this country for the sake of the footstalks, and likewise for the medicinal roots. When grown for the sake of the latter, they should be sown
in the place where they are intended to remain, that the growth of the roots may not be interfered with ; but when meant to be used for culinary purposes, or as ornamental plants, the seedlings may be transplanted in autumn. The most important use of the plants of this genus is to furnish the medicinal substance rhubarb.
It is not a little singular, that though this valuable medicine has been in use for centuries, we are still ignorant as to the precise species which yields it. Many endeavours have been made to ascertain this point, both by investigation of the countries from which the commercial rhubarb is brought, and by cultivating the known species and comparing their roots with the rhubarb of the shops, but none of these attempts hitherto has proved successful. Previous to 1732, rhubarb was believed to be yielded by the
Rheum ThaponticUm,
Linn. This species is distinguished by its leaves being roundish ovate, obtuse, pale green, with a few hairs beneath on the nerves and margins. The footstalks are pale green, striated, channelled above, with rounded edges. The roots are large and thick, much divided, and, like those of most of the other species, reddish brown without, yellow within. It is not found, however, that in cultivated specimens the roots yield a product at all resembling true rhubarb ; and as this species is a native of the wild land to the north of the Caspian Sea, between the Volga and Ural rivers, and not, so far as is known, of the country from which rhubarb is believed to come, the opinion that it is the true rhubarb plant has long been abandoned. It is chiefly this species, or hybrids of it, which is so commonly cultivated in gardens for the sake of the leafstalks, which are used extensively in the spring for making tarts and preserves. They have an agreeable acidity, owing to their containing, like some other plants of the same natural order, a considerable proportion of oxalic acid.
In 1732, some seeds sent to Paris and Chelsea as those of the true rhubarb plant were grown, and found to be 
Rheum undulatum.
This species is distinguished by its leaves being oval, obtuse, extremely wavy, of a dark-green colour, and by the footstalks being downy, blood-red, with the upper edges elevated. It is a native of China and Siberia, and was long cultivated by the Russians in the latter country as true rhubarb. The culture, however, is now abandoned, and it is well known that the roots which it yields are widely different from those of the genuine drug.
In 1750, Kaaw Boerhaave obtained some seeds which were said to be those of the true rhubarb ; and on being grown, they produced both
Rh. undulatum
and
Rh. palmatum.
The latter species is distinguished from all the others by its leaves being palmated, with acuminate segments ; and its roots on cultivation have been found by M. Guibour to bear the nearest resemblance, in colour, taste, and smell, to the true rhubarb. It appears, however, from the inquiries of Pallas, that the Bucharian rhubarb merchants knew nothing of such a leaf as that of
Rh. palmatam,
and described the true rhubarb plant as having round leaves with waved edges. This has been supposed to come near to another species,
Rh. compactum,
which is also occasionally cultivated in our gardens, but its roots are found to differ from true rhubarb in many particulars. Notwithstanding the doubts raised by Pallas, however, the idea that
Rh. palmatum
is the true rhubarb plant is still extensively entertained, and it has been stated as such in the new edition of the London Pharmacopoeia. It is very doubtful, however, if a decided opinion upon this point is admissible in the present state of our knowledge regarding this subject.
In the state of uncertainty to which these conflicting opinions gave rise as to the origin of rhubarb, the Empress Catherine U. of Russia, in 1790, sent an apothecary of the name of Sievers into Siberia, to endeavour to penetrate into the rhubarb country and ascertain the true plant ; but after four years’ attempts he was ultimately foiled, and returned
with no further information than that nothing certain appeared to be known upon the subject
More recently the
Rh. Emodi
of Dr Wallich (flΛ.
Australe,
Don), and
Rh. Webbianum,
both natives of the Hima-layah Mountains, have been found to be valuable as purgatives, and the former was supposed to be the true source of Chinese rhubarb ; but Mr Pereira has found that the Hi-malayah rhubarb was quite different from the rhubarb of the shops.
It thus appears that the source of true rhubarb is still unascertained ; nor is it at all certain that it is not yielded by more than one species. Professor Royle of King’s College is of opinion, and apparently correctly, that it is obtained in the heart of Thibet, in about 95° east longitude, and 35° north latitude, a country into which as yet no scientific botanist has ever penetrated. It is worthy of remark, that this agrees with the Statcments of Pallas and other travellers, that the Russian rhubarb is gathered on the mountains surrounding Lake Kokonor, and that this is part of what has been assigned by Murray as the native country of
Rh. palmatum.
Here, therefore, an excellent subject for investigation is still open ; and it is to be hoped that this desideratum in our knowdedge of the botanical materia medica may soon be supplied. Several circumstances however combine to render the attainment of this object difficult. The labour of penetrating into the wild country where the true rhubarb probably grows is not to be overlooked ; and jealousy on the part of the dealers in this profitable article of commerce will likewise lead to much inconvenience. It is said that the trade in Russian rhubarb is monopolized by one Buc-harian family, who farm it from the Chinese government ; and it is not improbable that, in order to prevent the establishment of a rival trade elsewhere, they may already have embarrassed the subject, by purposely furnishing as the seeds of true rhubarb, those of different and inferior species. In attempting to ascertain the true officinal species by cultivation, we are likewise met by this difficulty, that the different species hybridise so readily that their distinctive characters are very readily lost. This is very apparent in the rhubarbs cultivated in our gardens, which, though commonly referred to
Rh. rhαpontieum,
are in great measure made up of hybrids between that species,
Rh. compactum,
and
Rh. hybridum.
Though the true rhubarb plant has not been seen by any scientific botanist, we have some interesting information from other travellers respecting its growth and production. The best accounts appear to be those given by Mr Bell in his journey from St Petersburg to Pekin. Sievers, in his Sttemptstodiscover the true rhubarb plant, likewise obtained some information respecting it, and the statements of these travellers differ only in some unimportant particulars. It appears that the plant is not made the subject of special culture, but that enough grows spontaneously to keep up the supply of this valuable drug. The marmots, which breed extensively in this country, contribute in a great measure to the propagation of the plant ; for it seems that the seeds germinate almost exclusively on the loose earth turned up by these animals in making their burrows. The natives gather the roots in spring and autumn, and, after removing the cortical part, cut them in small pieces to facilitate the drying. They cut a hole through each piece, and then string them upon a small cord, by which they hang them up to dry on poles or trees, or more commonly about their tents, and occasionally, it seems, upon the horns of their sheep. By this last practice a considerable amount of loss is sustained, as, from the prolonged exposure to moisture, much of the root becomes decayed and useless. According to Sievers, the roots are dried under sheds, out of the rays
of
the sun, and they sometimes take
a
whole year to dry.
Several varieties of rhubarb occur in commerce. The first and most esteemed is
Turhey
or
Russia
rhubarb, which was formerly brought to Europe chiefly through the Turkish provinces of Asia Minor, but is now imported through Russia. It is brought from the native country to the frontier town of Kiachta in Siberia, where it is examined by a Russian government officer. All the pieces which are of bad quality are rejected and burned, and those which are good are transmitted to Moscow and St Petersburg, where they are again inspected, and any inferior pieces picked out. From this careful examination Russian rhubarb is always of good quality, and bears a higher price than any other kind.
The pieces of Russian rhubarb are generally from one and a half to two inches broad, sometimes of a flat shape, but more commonly two or three inches long, and somewhat conical. The external surface is always irregular and angular, the bark apparently having been removed in slices. They are always perforated by one large hole, through which the cord has been passed in drying them ; occasionally some smaller holes are observed, not passing completely through, which have been made in Russia, for the purpose of examining the interior of the specimens. The colour externally is of a bright golden-yellow, owing to the pieces being covered by powder, formed by their friction upon each other. When broken across they present an irregular and rough surface, having a mottled appearance, owing to the interlacing of yellow and brownish-red veins, which are more distinctly seen when the surface is cut smooth. The smell of tlle rhubarb is strong and peculiar, and the taste is bitter, astringent, and slightly aromatic. Under the teeth good Russia rhubarb feels gritty, owing to the presence of small crystals of oxalate of lime, which are dispersed in tufts through the root, and which may be seen under the microscope, in a piece which has been boiled in water.
The second variety of rhubarb, though commercially distinct from the Russian, is perhaps originally derived from the same source. It is called
East India
or
Chinese
rhubarb, being imported chiefly from Canton or Singapore. It is distinguished from Russian rhubarb by the pieces being larger and heavier, and by their surface being not angular, but rounded, the bark having apparently been removed by scraping, and not by slicing. The holes by which it is perforated are generally smaller than those of the Russian rhubarb, and the portions of the root surrounding the perforation are frequently decayed. The fracture is uneven, and has a mottled appearance, but is usually of a darker colour than the Russian kind. The smell and taste of the Chinese is inferior to that of the Russian, but not in a very marked degree ; and it is generally equally gritty under the teeth. The powder of Chinese rhubarb has rather a darker tint than that of the Russian ; but the latter is seldom found in the shops pure, and the difference generally is not very apparent. As the Chinese rhubarb is not subjected to the same rigid examination and selection as that brought through Russia, it is of inferior quality, and brings a much lower price in the market. Thus, whilst Russia rhubarb in bond is quoted in the official returns of the prices current, at eight shillings and threepence per pound, the East India is stated to bring only from two shillings and sixpence to four shillings. It does not appear, however, that the Chinese rhubarb is in any essential respect inferior as a medicine to the Russian.
Another variety of rhubarb has been described under the name of
Dutch trimmed,
or
Batavian,
which, like the Chinese, is brought from Canton or Singapore, and is always quoted in the prices current as a distinct commercial kind. It is said to resemble the Russia rhubarb in external characters, but is not superior in value to the common Chinese sort, as it appears from the official returns that it brings the same price in the market.
The third commercial variety of rhubarb is the
English,
or, as it might more appropriately be called,
European ;
for what is called in France
French
rhubarb is merely an equivalent sort grown in that country. The English rhubarb appears to be chiefly the roots of
Rh. palmatum ;
it is cultivated to a large extent, especially at Banbury in Oxfordshire, where it was first extensively grown about the year 1780, by a Mr Hayward. Towards the end of last century many attempts were made to cultivate the rhubarb in England for medicinal use, accounts of which have been preserved in the Transactions of tlle Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. The expectations which were then formed, and the opinions entertained, of the qualities of the English rhubarb were very sanguine ; but though it is still cultivated to a considerable extent for this purpose, it is well known to be very inferior to the foreign kinds. In France a great many varieties of rhubarb are cultivated at a place called Rheumpole, in the department of Morbihan : they are chiefly
Rh. undulatum, Rh. rhapοnticum,
and
Rh. compactum.
The cultivation of 
Rh. palmatum
there has been abandoned, but for what reason is not very apparent. The produce of this cultivation is what is sold in France as
French
rhubarb.
English rhubarb is found in the shops under two forms ; either in pieces cut so as to resemble some of the Asiatic kinds, in which case it is called
dressed
or
trimmed ;
or in cylindrical pieces four or five inches long, and about one inch thick, which are obviously the smaller portions of the root dried entire or longitudinally split. This last kind is termed
stick
rhubarb. The first of these is the only one which can be mistaken for foreign rhubarb, but it may at once be distinguished by its being very much lighter than any of the Asiatic kinds, and by its being, especially towards the centre, of a much softer texture. Its fracture, like that of the Russian and Chinese rhubarb, is marked by the reticulated veins, but it has generally rather a pinkish tint. It is sometimes, though not commonly, gritty under the teeth ; it has much less astringency and bitterness to the taste than the Asiatic rhubarb, being generally somewhat mucilaginous ; and its smell, though often equally strong, is much less aromatic and agreeable. The external appearance of European rhubarb is often very deceptive, for it is a common practice to rub the pieces over with the powder of the Turkey rhubarb, to make it pass for the more valuable drug ; but its pinkish colour is easily observed on Brushing the specimen, and its light weight and softer texture at once proclaim the difference.
In selecting rhubarb, the pieces should be found to have a good colour and smell, and to be of a considerable specific gravity. Those which are worm-eaten, or are of a dirty-brown or blackish colour, should be rejected ; and, to ascertain these points, brushing the surface should never be neglected, as inferior kinds are very frequently disguised by unprincipled dealers, by covering the surface with powder of good rhubarb ; and worm holes are sometimes concealed by stopping them with a paste made of the powder of genuine rhubarb and water.
The chemical analysis of rhubarb is still very imperfect. A yellowish crystallizable principle has been obtained from it, to which the names of Rheine, Rhaponticine, and Rhabarbarine have been given ; but these various terms have obviously been applied by different chemists to the same substance. This appears to be merely the colouring matter of rhubarb, and not its active principle, which may still be regarded as unknown. Whatever be the nature of the active part of rhubarb, as it exists in the plant it is soluble both in water and alcohol. Water takes up more of the purgative and less of the astringent principles of rhubarb than alcohol ; hence infusion is a good liquid form for administering this medicine as a laxative. The watery preparations of rhubarb, however, should always be made
by infusion, and not by decoction, as a high temperature impairs its purgative property. It is for this reason that the common extract of rhubarb of the shops is of no use as a laxative. Rhubarb, from its astringency, has been supposed to contain tannine, but this has not been satisfactorily demonstrated by chemical experiment. The r∞ts contain a certain proportion of starch. This is most abundant in the English sort, which accounts for its generally having a somewhat mucilaginous taste.
The medicinal action of rhubarb varies according to the dose in which it is administered. In small quantities, as three or four grains, it is a gentle stomachic and astringent, and as such is employed in many cases of indigestion, and a relaxed state of the bowels. In cases of diarrhoea in children, which are generally attended with superabundant acidity of the
primœ viœ,
there is no safer or more effectual remedy than three or four grains of rhubarb, with twice that quantity of prepared chalk, which may be taken two or three times in the day.
In larger doses, as in quantities from fifteen to thirty grains, rhubarb is a mild and easy laxative, and, from its possessing no irritating qualities, is valuable in all cases where the bowels might be injured by more active substances. It is consequently well adapted to the more irritable constitutions of children and females. Where there is derangement of the stomach or bowels from indigestible matter, or from acidity, rhubarb is a very valuable laxative ; and in such cases its action is very much improved by its being combined with magnesia. The well-known 
Gregorfs powder,
introduced by the late professor of physic at Edinburgh, consists of two parts of rhubarb, three of calcined magnesia, and one of ginger, and is one of the best remedies which can be employed in such cases. The usual dose of this for an adult is a tea-spoonful, which may be taken in water, combined with some aromatic tincture, or with a little of the tincture of rhubarb itself.
The colouring matter of rhubarb, and probably its purgative principle, are absorbed into the circulation during its action on the system. That the colouring matter is absorbed, is demonstrated by its presence in the urine, to which it communicates a reddish-brown colour ; a circumstance always to be bome in mind in forming an opinion of any case in which rhubarb may have previously been taken. The absorption of the purgative principle is inferred from the fact, that the milk of nurses who are using this medicine sometimes exerts a laxative influence on children at the breast.
In the year 1835, the quantity of rhubarb imported into Great Britain amounted to 81,100 lbs., and in 1836 to 122,142 lbs., of which in the former year 44,522 lbs., and in the latter 44,468 lbs., were retained for home consumption ; the duty being one shilling per lb., yielded a net revenue of L.2220 in the one year, and L.2236 in the other.    (b. m.)
RHUMB, in
Navigation,
a vertical circle of any given place, or intersection of such a circle with the horizon ; in which last sense it is the same with a point of the compass.
RHUMB-Line
is also used for the line which a ship describes when sailing in the same collateral point of the compass, or oblique to the meridians.
RHYME, Rhimk,
Ryrne,
or
Rime,
in
Poetry,
the similar sound or cadence and termination of two words which end two verses, &c. Or rhyme is a similitude of sound between the last syllable or syllables of a verse, succeeding either immediately or at a distance of two or three lines.
RHYMER, Thomas the. See Thomas of Ebceldoun.
RHYTHM, Mustcal. See Music.
RHYTHMOMETER, from
ρuHμλς,
and ∕4∙rgov, an instrument contrived to measure equal portions of sounds in musical performance, and to mark the time, at longer or shorter intervals, according to adjustment of the mechanism. Mael-zel's
metronome
is the instrument of this kind most generally in use, although one more simple and less costly might easily be made. Diderot, in the fourth memoir of his mathematical works, suggested a musical chronometer, but added, “ Le seul bon chronomètre que Γon puisse avoir, c’est un habile musicien qui ait du goût, qui ait bien lui la musique qu’il doit faire exécuter, et qui sache en battre la mesure.” The chief utility of a rhythmometer consists in the power of fixing the duration of time which a composer wishes to give to the equalized portions of his composition, as indicated by the vibrations of a pendulum, and as marked by relative numerals affixed to characters of musical notation. Almost all pieces of music of classical importance are now printed with indications of the metronome measures of time ; and this is a great improvement, inasmuch as before the present century we had nothing but tradition, and often no tradition at all, to guide us in the comparative slowness or quickness with which the notes of a musical composition were to be performed.
RIAO, an island in the Eastern Seas, about twenty-five miles in circumference, near the west coast of Morty. Long. 128. 2. E. Lat. 2. 25. N.
RIASAN, a government of Russia, so called from the ancient city of that name. It extends in north latitude from 53. 1. to 55. 4L, and in east longitude from 38. 10. to 4L 14., and is 13,486 square miles. It contains twelve cities or towns, and 833 parishes or communes, with 1,250,000 inhabitants, a very great proportion of whom are in a state of vassalage. The district is an extensive plain watered by the rivers Don, Oka, Osetr, and Prona, and near to them it is highly fertile. In the other parts the soil is as productive as can well be expected in a climate so severe. The land is best in the southern division of the province, but the whole yields more com than is required for domestic consumption. A surplus for exportation is produced of grain, and brandy made from it, of salted meat, of leather, wax, honey, and hops. The forests afford a large supply of timber. The manufactures are confined to clothing, chiefly linen, and to iron implements. The exports proceed through the Oka to the river Wolga. The capital is the city of the same name on the river Trubusch, and is the seat of a bishop. It contains twenty churches, an ecclesiastical seminary, and one for the higher classes, with 760 dwellings, and 5000 inhabitants, chiefly employed in making linens. It is 617 miles from Petersburg. Long. 39.4.58. E. Lat. 54.58.6. N.
RIBAUVILLER, a city of the department of the Upper Rhine, and arrondissement of Colmar, in France. It is situated at the foot of the Vosges Mountains, on the river Stambach. In 1836, it contained 6558 inhabitants, who were employed in cultivating the vine, and in carrying on extensive cotton manufactures.
RIBERA, a town of the intendency of Girgenti1 and the district of Mazzara, in the island of Sicily. It stands on an unhealthy plain on the sea-shore, near the river Ca-latabellota, sixty miles from Palermo, and contains 4800 industrious inhabitants.
RIBERAC, an arrondissement of the department of the Dordogne, in France, 557 square miles in extent. It comprises seven cantons, and eighty-three communes, and in 1836 contained 71,457 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name, in a fertile vale on the left bank of tlle river Dronne. It is ill built, and in 1836 contained 3775 inhabitants, with but little commerce.
RICARDO, David, the most distinguished political economist since Dr Smith, was the third of a numerous family, and was born in the city of London on the 19th of April 1772. His father, a native of Holland, and of the Jewish persuasion, settled in this country early in life. He is said to have been a man of good talents and the strictest integrity ; and having become a member of the Stock Exchange, he acquired a respectable fortune, and possessed
considerable influence in his circle. David was destined for the same line of business as his father ; and received, partly in England, and partly at a school in Holland, where he resided two years, such an education as is usually given to young men intended for the mercantile profession. Classical learning formed no part of his early instruction. He began to be confidentially employed by his father, in the business of the Stock Exchange, when he was only fourteen years of age. Neither then, however, nor at any subsequent period, was he wholly engrossed by the combinations and details of his arduous and difficult profession. From his earliest years he evinced a taste for abstract and general reasoning ; and manifested that determination to probe every subject of interest to the bottom, and to form bis opinion upon it according to the unbiassed conviction of his mind, which was always one of the distinguishing features of his character.
Mr Ricardo’s freedom and independence of mind did not accord with the prejudices of his father, who had been accustomed to subscribe, without investigation, to the opinions of his ancestors, on all questions connected with religion and politics, and who was desirous that his children should do the same. But this system of passive obedience, and blind submission to the dictates of authority, was quite repugnant to the principles of young Ricardo, who, at the same time that he never failed to testify the sincerest affection and respect for his father, found reason to differ from him on many important points, and to become a convert to the Christian faith.
Not long after this event, and shortly after he attained the age of majority, Mr Ricardo formed a union, productive of unalloyed domestic happiness, with Miss Wilkinson. Having, in consequence of this conduct, been entirely separated from his father, he was thrown wholly on his owr n resources, and commenced business for himself. At this important epoch of his history, the oldest and most respectable members of the Stock Exchange gave a striking proof of the esteem entertained by them for his talents and the integrity of his character, by voluntarily coming forward to support and assist him in his undertakings. His success exceeded the most sanguine expectations of his friends, and in a few years he realized an ample fortune.
“ The talent for obtaining wealth,” says a near relation of Mr Ricardo’s, from whose interesting account of his life we have borrowed these particulars, “ is not held in much estimation ; but perhaps in nothing did Mr Ricardo more evince his extraordinary powers, than he did in his business. His complete knowledge of all its intricacies; his surprising quickness at figures and calculation ; his capability of getting through, without any apparent exertion, the immense transactions in which he wτ as concerned ; his coolness and judgment, combined certainly with (for him) a fortunate tissue of public events, enabled him to leave all his contemporaries at the Stock Exchange far behind, and to raise himself infinitely higher, not only in fortune, but in general character and estimation, than any man had ever done before in that house. Such was the impression which these qualities had made on his competitors, that several of the most discerning among them, long before he had emerged into public notoriety, prognosticated, in their admiration, that he would live to fill some of the highest stations in the state.”@@1
According as his solicitude about his success in life declined, Mr Ricardo began to devote a greater portion of his time to scientific and literary pursuits. When about twenty-five years of age, he began to study some branches of mathematical science, and made considerable progress in chemistry and mineralogy. He fitted up a laboratory, formed a collection of minerals, and was one of the original members of the Geological Society. It is known, however, that he never entered warmly into the investigation of these sciences. They were not adapted to the peculiar cast of his mind ; and he abandoned them entirely, as soon as his attention was directed to the more congenial study of political economy.
Mr Ricardo is stated to have first become acquainted with the “Wealth of Nations” in 1799, while on a visit to Bath, where he had accompanied Mrs Ricardo for the benefit of her health. He was highly gratified by its perusal ; and it is most probable that the inquiries about wllich it is conversant continued henceforth to occupy a considerable share of his attention, though it was not till a later period that he became so exclusively occupied with their study.
Mr Ricardo first came before the public as an author in 1809. The rise in the market-price of bullion, and the fall of the exchange that had taken place that year, had excited a good deal of attention. Mr Ricardo applied himself to the consideration of the subject; and the studies in which he had been latterly engaged, combined with the experience which he had derived from the vast extent of his moneyed transactions, enabled him not only to perceive the true cause of the phenomena in question, but to trace and exhibit its practical bearing and real effect. When Mr Ricardo began this investigation, he had no intention of laying the result of his researches before the public. But having shown his manuscript to Mr Perry, then proprietor and editor of the Morning Chronicle, he was prevailed upon by him, though not without considerable difficulty, to consent to its publication, in the shape of letters, in that journal. The first of these letters appeared on the 6th of September, 1809. They made a considerable impression, and elicited various answers. This success, and the increasing interest of the subject, induced Mr Ricardo to commit his opinions upon it to the judgment of the public, in a more enlarged and systematic form, in the celebrated tract entitled “ The High Price of Bullion a Proof of the Depreciation of Bank Notes.” This tract led the way in the far-famed bullion controversy. It issued from the press several months previously to the appointment of the bullion committee ; and is believed to have had no inconsiderable effect in forwarding that important measure. In this tract Mr Ricardo showed that redundancy and deficiency of currency are only
relative
terms ; and that so long as the currency of a particular country consists exclusively of gold and silver coins, or of paper convertible into them, it is impossible that its value should either rise above or fall below the value of the currencies of other countries, by a greater sum than will suffice to defray the expense of importing foreign coin or bullion if the currency be deficient, or of exporting a portion of the existing supply if it be redundant. But when a country issues an inconvertible paper-money, as was then the case with England, it cannot be exported to other countries in the event of its becoming relatively redundant at home ; and whenever, therefore, the exchange with foreign states is depressed below, or the price of bullion rises above, its mint price, more than the expense of sending coins abroad, it is a conclusive proof that too much paper has been issued, and that its value is
depreciated from excess.
The principles which pervade the Report of the bullion committee are substantially the same with those which pervade Mr Ricardo’s pamphlet ; but the more comprehensive and popular manner in which they are illustrated in the Report, and their being recommended by a committee composed of some of the ablest members of the House of Commons, gave them a weight and authority which they could not otherwise have obtained. And though
@@@1 See an account
of
the Life of Mr Ricardo in the
Annugt Obituary
for 1823, supposed to be written bv one of his brcther‰
the prejudices and ignorance of some, and the interested,
' and therefore determined, opposition of others, prevented for
a
while the adoption of the measures proposed by Mr Ricardo and the committee for restoring the currency to a sound and healthy state, they have since been carried into full effect, and afford one of the most memorable and encouraging examples in the history of the country, of the triumph of principle over selfishness, sophistry, and error.
The
fourth
edition of this tract is the most valuable ; for an Appendix is added to it, in which there are some acute and ingenious observations on some of the most difficult and delicate points involved in the theory of exchange ; and which also contains the first germ of the happy idea of making bank-notes exchangeable for bars of gold hullion.
Among those who entered the lists in opposition to the principles laid down, and the practical measures suggested, in Mr Ricardo’s tract, and in the Report of the bullion committee, a very prominent place is due to Mr Bosanquet. This gentleman had great experience as a merchant ; and as he professed that the statements given in his “ Practical Observations,” and which are completely at variance with those in the Report, were the result of a careful examination of the
theoretical
opinions of the committee by the test of fact and experiment, they were well calculated to make, and did make, a very considerable impression. The triumph of Mr Bosanquet and his friends was, however, of very short duration. Mr Ricardo did not hesitate to attack this formidable adversary in his stronghold. His second tract, entitled “ Reply to Mr Bosanquefs Practical Observations on the Report of the Bullion Committee,” was published in 1811, and is perhaps the best controversial essay that has ever appeared on any disputed question of political economy. In this pamphlet, Mr Ricardo met Mr Bosanquet on his own ground, and overthrew him with his own weapons. He examined all the proofs which Mr Bosanquet had brought forward, of the pretended discordance between the principles advanced in his own pamphlet, and in the Bullion
Report, and experience ; and showed that Mr Bosanquet had either mistaken the cases by which he proposed to try the theory, or that the discrepancy was only apparent, and was entirely a consequence of his inability to apply the principle, and not of any deficiency in the principle itself. The victory of Mr Ricardo was perfect and complete ; and the elaborate errors and mis-statements of Mr Bosanquet served only, in the language of Dr Copleston, “ to illustrate the abilities of the writer who stepped forward to vindicate the truth.”@@1 This tract affords a striking example of the ascendency which those who possess a knowledge both of principle and practice, have over those familiar only with the latter ; and though the interest of the question which gave rise to it be now subsided, it will always be read with delight by such as are not insensible of the high gratification which all ingenuous minds must feel in observing the ease with which a superior intellect clears away the irrelevant matter with which a question has been designedly embarrassed, reduces false facts to their just value, and traces and exhibits the constant and active operation of the same general principle through all the mazy intricacies of practical detail.
The merit of these pamphlets was duly appreciated ; and Mr Ricardo’s society was, in consequence, courted by men of the first eminence and consideration, who were not less delighted with his modesty, and the mildness and amenity of his manners, than with the reach and vigour of his understanding. It was at this period that he formed that intimacy with Mr Malthus, and Mr Mill, the author of the History of British India, which ended only with his life. To Mr Mill he was particularly attached ; and he always felt pleasure in acknowledging how much he owed to the friendship, and to the clear, discriminating judgment of that gentleman.
Mr Ricardo’s next appearance as an author was in 1815, during the discussions on the bill, afterwards passed into a law, for raising the limit at which the importation of foreign corn should be permitted, to 80s. Mr Malthus, and a “ Fellow of University College, Oxford” (Mr West, afterwards Sir Edward West), had, in two able pamphlets, published almost at tlle same moment, developed the real nature, origin, and causes of rent.@@2 But neither of them perceived the real value and importance of the principles which they had established. This was reserved for Mr Ricardo, who, in his “ Essay on the Influence of a Low Price of Corn on the Profits of Stock,” showed the real effect of the increase which must always take place in the price of raw produce, in the progress of society, on wages and profits ; and founded an irresistible argument in favour of the freedom of thc corn trade, on the very principles from which Mr Malthus had vainly endeavoured to show the propriety of subjecting it to fresh restrictions. This essay is particularly worthy of attention, as it contains a brief statement of some of the fundamental principles subsequently demonstrated in the “ Principles of Political Economy and Taxation.”
In 1816, Mr Ricardo published his “ Proposals for an Economical and Secure Currency, with Observations on the Profits of the Bank of England.” In this pamphlet Mr Ricardo examined the circumstances which determine the value of money, both when every individual has the power to supply it, and whenthatpoweris restricted and placed under a monopoly : he showed that, in the former case, its value depends, like that of all freely produced commodities, wholly on the cost of its production; while in the latter its value is quite unaffected by that circumstance, and depends entirely on the extent to which it has been issued compared with the demand. This is a principle of great importance ; for it shows that intrinsic worth is not necessary to a currency, and that, provided the supply of paper-notes, declared to be legal tender, be sufficiently limited, their value may be maintained on a par with that of gold, or raised to any higher level. If, therefore, it were possible to devise a system for preserving the value of paper on a level w ith gold, without making it convertible into coin at the pleasure of the holder, the whole of the expenses attending the use of a metallic currency would be saved. To effect this object, Mr Ricardo proposed that bank-notes, instead of being made exchangeable for gold coins, should be made exchangeable for
bars of gold bullion of the standard weight and purity.
This device was obviously calculated to check the over-issue of paper quite as effectually as it could be checked by making it convertible into coin ; while, as the bars could not be used as currency, it prevented any gold from getting into circulation. Mr Ricardo’s proposal was recommended in the Reports of the Committees ofthe Houses of Lords and Commons, appointed in 1819, to consider tlle expediency of the bank’s resuming cash-payments, and was afterwards adopted in the celebrated bill introduced by Mr (now Sir Robert) Peel, for the resumption of cash payments. But though the plan secured all the advantages which Mr Ricardo had in view, these were not the only considerations that had to be attended
1
@@@ First Letter to the Right Hon. Robert Peel, by one of his Constituents, p. Cl.
@@@2 There was little that was new in either of these pamphlets ; the origin, nature, and causes of rent having been quite as well, or rather better, explained in a pamphlet by Dr Anderson, the editor of the Bee, published in 1777 (Inquiry into the Nature of the Com Laws), and in his Agricultural Recreations, published in 1801. But the investigations and discoveries of Anderson did not attract any attention, and were, indeed, totally forgotten ; so that it was necessary the theory of rent should be re-stated (it is believed to Iiave been re-discovered), to make it be understood and appreciated by the public.
to. The discovery
of
means for the prevention, or at least diminution, of the extensive forgery to which the substitution of notes in the place of coins had given rise, was indispensably necessary to the success of Mr Ricardo’s plan ; and notwithstanding all the efforts that have been made, this desideratum has not yet been supplied. Forgery in the larger description of notes, or in those for L.5 and upwards, may, with due precaution, be prevented from becoming injuriously prevalent. But low notes, or those of the value of L. 1 or L.2, having to circulate among the labouring classes, and in immense numbers, present facilities for the issue of spurious paper which it has been found impossible materially to diminish. Hence, in 1821, the plan of paying in bars of bullion was abandoned, and the Bank of England recommenced paying in specie.
At length, in 1817, Mr Ricardo published his great work on the “ Principles of Political Economy and Taxation.” This was a step which he did not take without much hesitation. He was not, and did not affect to be, insensible of the value of literary and philosophical reputation ; but his modesty always led him to undervalue his own powers ; and having already obtained a very high degree of celebrity as a writer on currency, he was unwilling to risk what he was already in possession of, by attempting to gain more. Ultimately, however, he was prevailed upon by the entreaties of his friends, and chiefly by those of Mr Mill, to allow his work to be sent to press. Its appearance forms a new era in the history of the science. With the exception of the “ Wealth of Nations,” it is the most important, as it certainly is the most original and profound, work that has appeared on political economy. It must, however, be admitted, that he has not been happy in the exposition of several of his peculiar doctrines ; and the mathematical cast of his reasonings, the intimate dependence of his propositions on each other, and the new sense which he sometimes gives to terms in common use, are apt to repel ordinary readers, and give an appearance of obscurity to the work. But those who study it with the care and attention which it deserves, will find that it is eminently logical ; and the powers
of
mind displayed in its investigations, the dexterity with which the most abstruse and difficult questions are unravelled, the sagacity evinced in tracing the operation of general principles, in disentangling them from such as are of a secondary and accidental nature, and in perceiving and estimating their remotest consequences, have rarely been surpassed, and will for ever secure the name of Ricardo a conspicuous place in the list of profound thinkers, and of the discoverers of useful truths.
The reader will find in the article Political Economy a pretty full account of the leading principles advanced by Mr Ricardo in this work, and of his most material conclusions. It is to be regretted that he relied too much on theoretical reasonings, without making sufficient allowance for the circumstances natural to and inherent in society, which either counteract or materially modify some of the principles on which he laid the greatest stress. But despite the errors into which he thus necessarily fell, his work is of the very highest value. It is the first in which we find an analysis and generally just explanation of the circumstances which determine the distribution of w, ealth among the various ranks and orders of society, and which govern their apparently conflicting but really harmonious relations. Since the appearance of Mr Ricardo’s work the whole face of the science has been changed, not merely by his numerous discoveries, and the new lights which he struck out in every department, but by the closer and more analytical method of reasoning which he introduced. In this respect there is yet, no doubt, much room for improvement ; but any one who compares the economical writings of the last seven years, with those current before Mr Ricardo’s work made its appearance, will be satisfied that there is now much less of loose generalization, and more regard to science and principle. The practical considerations which Mr Ricardo too much neglected have had their proper influence ascertained by subsequent inquirers ; and his doctrines having been properly modified, and made applicable to tlle exigencies of society, have acquired a very high practical as well as theoretical value.
Previously to the publication of his Principles, Mr Ricardo retired wholly from business, with a very large fortune, acquired with the universal respect and esteem of his competitors. He afterwards spent the greater part of the summer at Gatcomb Park, an estate which he had purchased in Gloucestershire. But he did not retire from the bustle of active life to the mere enjoyment of his acres—
Nonfuit consilium socordia atque desidia bonum otium conterere
—he had other objects in view ; and while his leisure hours, when in the country, were chiefly devoted to the prosecution of the interesting science of which he was now confessedly at the head, he determined to extend the sphere of his usefulness by entering the House of Commons. In 1819 he took his seat as member for Portarlington. His diffidence of his own powers had, however, nearly deprived the country of the important services which he rendered in this situation. In a letter to one of his friends, dated the 7th of April 1819, he says, “ You will have seen that I have taken my seat in the House of Commons. I fear that I shall be of little use there. I have twice attempted to speak ; but I proceeded in the most embarrassed manner ; and I have no hope of conquering the alarm with which I am assailed tlle moment I hear the sound of my own voice.” And in a letter to the same gentleman, dated the 22d of June 1819, he says, “ I thank you for your endeavours to inspire me with confidence on the occasion of my addressing the house. Their indulgent reception of me has, in some degree, made the task of speaking more easy to me; but there are yet so many formidable obstacles to my success, and some, I fear, of a nature nearly insurmountable, that I apprehend it will be wisdom and sound discretion in me to content myself with giving silent votes.” Fortunately he did not adopt this resolution. The difficulties with which he had at first to struggle, and his diffidence in himself, gradually subsided ; while the integrity of his character, the mildness of his manners, and the perfect mastery which he possessed over the subjects on which he spoke, and the unquestionable purity and disinterestedness of his intentions, speedily secured him a very extensive and powerful influence both in the house and the country, and gave the greatest weight and authority to his opinions.
Mr Ricardo was not one of those who make speeches to suit the temporary and ephemeral circumstances and politics of the day ; he spoke only from principle, and with a fixed resolution never to diverge in the smallest degree from the path which it pointed out ; he neither concealed nor modified an opinion for the purpose of conciliating the favour, or of disarming the prejudices or hostility, of any man or set of men ; nor did he ever make a speech or give a vote which he was not thoroughly convinced was founded on just principles, and calculated to promote the true and lasting interests of the public. Trained to habits of profound thinking, independent in his fortune, and inflexible in his principles, Mr Ricardo had nothing in common with the vulgar tribe of party politicians. His country’s good was the single and only object of his parliamentary exertions ; and he laboured to promote it, not by engaging in party cabals, which he detested, but by supporting the rights and liberties of all classes, and by explaining and unfolding tile true sources of national wealth and public prosperity.
The change which has taken place in the public opinion respecting the financial and commercial policy of the country, since the period when Mr Ricardo obtained a seat in tlm House of Commons, is as complete as it is gratifying.
That monopoly has still many defenders, must be allowed ; but they defend it only because they are interested in its support. The most enlarged principles are now supported by all the leading members of both houses. All are now ready to admit that the exclusive system is founded on vicious principles ; that it is not calculated to accelerate, but to retard, the progress of those nations by whom it is adopted ; and that it is sound policy to admit the freest competition in every branch of industry, and to deal with all the world on fair and liberal principles. The writings and the speeches of Mr Ricardo contributed more than those of any other individual to accomplish this salutary and desirable change. As he was known to be a master in “ the master science of civil life,” his opinion, from the moment he entered the House of Commons, was referred to on all important occasions ;@@1 and he acquired a constant accession of influence and consideration, according as experience served to render the house and the country better acquainted with the rare and excellent qualities of his mind, and the singleness of his heart.
In 1820 Mr Ricardo was prevailed on to furnish an article on the “ Funding System” for the Supplement to the Encyclopædia Britannica. This tract, though somewhat confused and perplexed in its arrangement, embraces many admirable discussions. Mr Ricardo was a decided friend to the plan for raising the supplies for a war within the year, by an equivalent increase of taxation ; and he was also of opinion that it would be both expedient and practicable to pay off the public debt by an assessment on capital. In this article he has endeavoured, if not with perfect success, at least with great ingenuity, to defend both projects from the objections commonly urged against them.
In 1822, during the parliamentary discussions on the subject of the corn laws, Mr Ricardo published his pamphlet on “ Protection to Agriculture.” This is the best of all his pamphlets, and is, indeed, a
chef-d’œuvre.
The various and important questions respecting remunerating price, the influence of a low and high value of corn on wages and profits, the effects of taxation on agriculture and manufactures, and many other topics of equal difficulty and interest, are all discussed in the short compass of eighty or ninety pages, with a precision and clearness that leaves nothing to be desired. Even if Mr Ricardo had never written anything else, this pamphlet would have placed him in the very first rank Of political economists.
Though not robust, Mr Ricardo’s constitution was apparently good, and his health such as to promise a long life of usefulness. He had indeed been subject for several years to an affection in one of his ears ; but as it had never given him any serious inconvenience, he paid little attention to it. When he retired to his seat in Gloucestershire, subsequently to the close of the session of 1823, he was in excellent health and spirits ; and besides completing a tract, containing a plan for the establishment of a national bank, he had engaged, with his usual ardour, in profound and elaborate inquiries in relation to the theory of value. But he was not destined to bring this investigation to a close. In the beginning of September he was suddenly seized with a violent pain in the diseased ear : the symptoms were not, however, considered as unfavourable ; and the breaking of an impos-tfrume that had formed within it contributed greatly to his relief. But the amendment was only transitory ; within two days inflammation recommenced ; and after a period of indescribable agony, pressure on the brain ensued, which produced a stupor that continued until death terminated his sufferings on the 11 th of September.
In private life Mr Ricardo was most amiable. He was a kind and indulgent father and husband, and a warm, affectionate, and zealous friend. No man was ever more thoroughly free from every species of artifice and pretension. He was sincere, plain, and unassuming, at once thc firmest and the gentlest of human beings. He was particularly fond of assembling intelligent men around him, and of conversing in the freest and most unrestrained manner on all topics of interest, but more especially on those connected with his favourite science. He was always ready to give way to others, and never discovered the least impatience to speak ; but when he did speak, the extent and accuracy of his knowledge, the solidity of his judgment, his perfect candour, and his peculiar and extraordinary talent for resolving a question into its elements, and for setting the most difficult and complicated subject in the clearest and most striking point of view, arrested the attention of every one, and made him the delight and idol of all who had the happiness to hear him. Mr Ricardo never entered into an argument, whether in public or private, for the sake of displaying ingenuity, of baffling an opponent, or of gaining a victory ; he was an entire stranger to such motives. The discovery of truth was his exclusive object. He was ever open to conviction ; and if he was satisfied that he had either advanced or supported an erroneous opinion, he was the first to acknowledge his error, and to caution others against it.
Few men ever possessed in a higher degree than Mr Ricardo the talent of speaking and conversing with clearness and facility on the most abstruse and difficult subjects. In this respect his speeches were greatly superior to his publications. The latter cannot be readily understood and followed without considerable attention ; but nothing could exceed the ease and felicity with which he illustrated and explained the most refined and delicate questions of political economy, both in private conversation and in his speeches. Without being forcible, his style of speaking was easy, fluent, and agreeable. It was impossible to take him off his guard. To those who were not familiar with his speculations, some of his positions were apt to appear paradoxical ; but the paradox was only in appearance. He never advanced an opinion on which he had not deeply reflected, and without examining it in every point of view ; and the readiness with which he met and overthrew the most specious objections that the ablest men in the house could state to his doctrines, is the best proof of their correctness, and of the superiority and acuteness of his understanding. That there were greater orators, and men of more varied and general acquirements, in parliament than Mr Ricardo, we readily allow ; but we are hold to say, that in point of deep, clear, and comprehensive intellect, he had no superiors, and very few, if any, equals, either in parliament or the country.
Mr Ricardo was not less generous than intelligent ; he was never slow to come forward to the relief of the poor and the distressed ; and while he contributed to almost every charitable institution in the metropolis, he supported at his own expense an alms-house for the poor, and two schools for the instruction of the young in the vicinity of his seat in the country.
Besides the publications previously enumerated, Mr Ricardo left several manuscripts. Among others, a “ Plan for the Establishment of a National Bank” was found in a finished state, and has since been published. In this pamphlet he has endeavoured to show that the power of issuing paper-money might be safely placed in the hands of commissioners appointed by government ; and that, while such a plan would be productive of no inconvenience, it would most probably save the public a considerable sum annually.
Mr Ricardo also left very full Notes on Mr Malthus’s
@@@1 Mr Ricardo made tile first of his prominent appearances on the 24th of May 1819, in the debate on the resolutions proposed by Mr Peel respecting the resumption of cash payments. He did not rise until he was loudly called upon from all sides of the House.
Principles of Political Economy. They contain a vindication of his own doctrines from the objections of Mr Malthus, and an exposition of the mistakes into which he conceives the latter had fallen.
Though not properly belonging to the Whig party, Mr Ricardo voted almost uniformly with them. He was fully impressed with a conviction of the many advantages that would result from giving the people a greater influence over the choice of their representatives in the House of Commons ; and was so far a friend to the system of the radical reformers, as to give his cordial support to the plan of voting by ballot, which he considered as the best if not the only means for securing the mass of the electors against improper solicitations, and enabling them to vote in favour of the candidates whom they really approved. He did not, however, agree with tlle radical reformers in their plan of universal suffrage : he thought the elective franchise should be given to all who possessed a certain amount of property ; but he was of opinion, that while it would be a very hazardous experiment, no practical good would result from giving the franchise indiscriminately to all.
When the circumstances under which the greater part of the life of Mr Ricardo was spent are brought under view, and when it is also recollected that he died at tlle early age of fifty· one, it may be truly said that very few men have ever achieved so much. His industry was quite unrivalled ; or if rivalled, it was only by his sagacity, his integrity, and his candour.
“ The history of Mr Ricardo,” to use the words of his friend Mr Mill, “ holds out a bright and inspiring example. Mr Ricardo had everything to do for himself, and he did everything. Let not the generous youth, whose aspirations are higher than his circumstances, despair of attaining either the highest intellectual excellence, or the highest influence on the welfare of his species, when he recollects in what circumstances Mr Ricardo opened, and in what he closed his memorable life. He had his fortune to make, his mind to form ; he had even his education to commence and conduct. In a field of the most intense competition he realized a large fortune, with the universal esteem and affection of those who could best judge of the honour and purity of his acts. Amid this scene of active exertion and practical detail, he cultivated and he acquired habits of intense and patient and comprehensive thinking, such as have been rarely equalled and never excelled.”
Mr Ricardo left a widow, three sons, and four daughters. One of his daughters died a few years before him, shortly after her marriage.    (c. c.)
RICAUT, or Rycaut, Sir Paul, an eminent English traveller, of the time of whose birth we find no account ; but in 1661 he was appointed secretary to the Earl of Win-chelsea, who was sent ambassador extraordinary to Turkey. During his continuance in that station he wrote “ The Present State of the Ottoman Empire, in three books, containing the maxims of the Turkish policy, their religion, and military discipline,” London, 1670; and he afterwards resided eleven years as consul at Smyrna, ¼, here, at the command of Charles IIn he composed “ The Present State of the Greek and Arminian Churches,
anno Christi
1678.” On his return, Lord Clarendon being appointed lord lieutenant of Ireland, made him his principal secretary for Leinster and Connaught. King James II. knighted him, and made him one of the privy council in Ireland, and judge of the court of admiralty. These appointments he held till tlle Revolution. He was employed by King William as resident at the Hanse Towns, in Lower Saxony, where he continued for ten years ; but being worn out with age and infirmities, he obtained leave to return in 1700, and died the same year. Ricaut continued Knolles’s History of the Turks, and Platina’s Lives of the Popes ; besides which there are some other productions which bcar his name.
RICE. “ Rice
brnsf
says Mr Marsden, “ whilst in the husk, is in Indian called
paddee,
and assumes a different name in each of its other various states. We observe no distinction of this kind in Europe, where our grain retains through all its stages, till it becomes flour, its original name of barley, wheat, or oats. The following, besides many others, are names applied to rice in its different stages of growth and preparation :
paddee,
original name of the seed ; 
oossαy,
grain of last season ;
bunnee,
the plants before removed to the sawoors ;
bras,
or
lιray,
rice, the husk of the paddee being taken off ;
charroοp,
rice cleaned for boiling ; 
ηassee,
boiled rice ;
peerang,
yellow rice
∙,jambaτ,
a service of rice, &c.
“ Among people whose general objects of contemplation are few, those which do of necessity engage their attention are often more nicely discriminated than the same objects among more enlightened people, whose ideas, ranging over the extensive field of art and science, disdain to fix long on obvious and common matters.
Paddee,
in Sumatra and the Malay Islands, is distinguished into two sorts ;
Iaddany
or upland paddee, and
sawoor
or lowland, which are always kept separate, and will not grow reciprocally. Of these, the former bears the higher price, being a whiter, heartier, and better-flavoured grain, and having the advantage in point of keeping. The latter is much more prolific from the seed, and liable to less risk in the culture, but is of a watery substance, produces less increase in boiling, and is subject to a swifter decay. It is, however, in more common use than the former. Besides this general distinction, the paddee of each sort, particularly the laddang, presents a variety of species, which, as far as my information extends, I shall enumerate and endeavour to describe. The common kind of dry ground paddee ; colour light brown ; the size rather large, and very little crooked at the extremity. Paddee
undαl-Iong ;
dry ground; short round grain; grows in whorls or bunches round the stock. Paddee
Mass ;
dry ground ; large grain ; common. Paddee
gαllοo ;
dry ground ; light coloured ; scarce. Paddee
sennee ;
dry ground ; deep coloured ; small grain ; scarce. Paddee
ejoο ;
dry ground ; light coloured. Paddee
kooning ;
dry ground ; deep yellow ; fine rice ; crooked and pointed. Paddee
eοocoor bal-lum ;
dry ground ; much esteemed ; light coloured : small, and very much crooked, resembling a dove’s nail, from whence its name.
TnAAcc pesang ;
dry ground ; outer coat light brown ; inner red ; longer, smaller, and less crooked than the
coocoor ballurn,
Paddee
saιUong ;
the finest sort that is planted in wet ground; small, straight, and light coloured. In general it may be observed that the larger grained rice is the least esteemed, and the smaller and whiter the most prized. In the Lampoon country they make a distinction of paddee
erawang
and paddee
jerroo ;
the former of which is a month earlier in growth than the latter.”
The following is the Chinese method of cultivating rice, as it is stated by Sir George Staunton : “ Much of the low grounds in the middle and southern provinces of the empire are appropriated to the culture of that grain. It constitutes, in fact, the principal part of the food of all those inhabitants who are not so indigent as to be forced to subsist on other and cheaper kinds of grain. A great proportion of the surface of the country is well adapted for the production of rice, which, from the time the seed is committed to the soil till the plant approaches to maturity, requires to be immersed in a sheet of water. Many and great rivers run through the principal provinces of China, the low grounds bordering on those rivers are annually inundated, by which means is brought upon their surface a rich mud or mucilage that fertilizes the soil, in the same manner as Egypt receives its fecundative quality from the overflowing of the Nile. The periodical rains which fall near the sources of the Yellow and the Kiang rivers, not very far distant from those of tlle Ganges and the Burumpooter, among
the mountains bounding India to tbe north and China to the west, often swell those rivers to a prodigious height, though not a drop should have fallen on the plains through which they afterwards flow.
“ After the mud has lain some days upon the plains in China, preparations are made for planting them with rice. For this purpose a small piece of ground is enclosed by a bank of clay ; the earth is ploughed up ; and an upright harrow, with a row' of wooden pins in the lower end, is drawn lightly over it by a buffalo. The grain, which had previously been steeped in dung diluted with animal water, is then sown very thickly upon it. A thin sheet of water is immediately brought over it, either by channels leading to the spot from a source above it, or, when below it, by means of a chain-pump, of which the use is as familiar as that of a hoe to every Chinese husbandman. In a few days the remainder of the ground intended for cultivation, if stiff, is ploughed, the lumps broken by hoes, and the surface levelled by the harrow. As soon as the shoots have attained the height of six or seven inches, they are plucked up by the roots, the tops of the blades cut off, and each root is planted separately, sometimes in small furrows turned with the plough, and sometimes in holes made in rows by a drilling stick for that purpose. The roots are about half a foot asunder. Water is brought over them a second time. For the convenience of irrigation, and to regulate its proportion, the rice-fields are subdivided by narrow ridges of clay into small enclosures. Through a channel in each ridge the water is conveyed at will to every subdivision of the field. As the rice approaches to maturity, the water, by evaporation and absorption, disappears entirely ; and the crop, when ripe, covers dry ground. The first crop or harvest, in the southern provinces particularly, happens towards the end of May or beginning of June. The instrument for reaping is a small sickle, dentated like a saw, and crooked. Neither carts nor cattle are used to carry the sheaves off from the spot where they were reaped ; but they are placed regularly in frames, two of which, suspended at the extremities of a bamboo pole, are carried across the shoulders of a man, to the place intended for disengaging the grain from the stems which had supported it. This operation is performed, not only by a flail, as is customary in Europe, or by cattle treading the com in the manner of other orientalists, but sometimes also by striking it against a plank set upon its edge, or beating it against the side of a large tub scolloped for that purpose ; the back and sides being much higher than the front, to prevent the grain from being dispersed. After being winnowed, it is carried to the granary.
“ To remove the skin or husk of rice, a large strong earthen vessel, or hollow stone, in form somewhat like that which is used elsewhere for filtering water, is fixed firmly in the ground ; and the grain, placed in it, is struck with a conical stone fixed to the extremity of a lever, and cleared, sometimes indeed imperfectly, from the husk. The stone is worked frequently by a person treading upon the end of the lever. The same object is attained also by passing the grain between two flat stones of a circular form, the upper of which turns round upon the other, but at such a distance from it as not to break the intermediate grain. The operation is performed on a large scale in mills turned by water ; the axis of the wheel carrying several arms, which by striking upon the ends of levers, raise them in the same manner as is done by treading on them. Sometimes twenty of these levers are worked at once. The straw from which the grain has been disengaged is cut chiefly into chaff, to serve as provender for the very few cattle employed in the Chinese husbandry.
“ The labour of the first crop being finished, the ground is immediately prepared for the reception of fresh seeds. The first operation undertaken is that of pulling up the stubble, collecting it into small heaps, which are burnt, and the ashes scattered upon the field. The former processes are afterwards renewed. The second crop is generally ripe late in October or early in November. The grain is treated as before ; but the stubble is no longer burnt. It is turned under with the plough, and left to putrefy in the earth. This, with the slime brought upon the ground by inundation, are the only manures usually employed in the culture of rice.”
RICHARDSON, Samuel, a novelist of great celebrity, was born in the year 1689, in Derbyshire, but in what particular place has not been ascertained. His father, the descendant of a reputable family in the county of Surrey, followed the occupation of a joiner. The son was at first intended for the church ; but after his father had sustained some heavy losses, he was left, at the age of fifteen or sixteen, to make choice of some employment which did not require so expensive a preparation. He only appears to have received the most ordinary training of a country school. Latin words and phrases are to be found in his works, but there is no reason to believe that he had acquired even an elementary knowledge of that language, nor was he afterwards induced to make the more easy acquisition of French. But he had access to the rich and ample treasures of English literature, and he became deeply read in the book of human nature. He was a bashful boy, and gave an early preference to the society of the other sex. From his childhood he delighted in letter-writing ; and to this early taste we may trace the germ of his principal works. “ I was not more than thirteen,” he informs us, “ when three of these young women, unknown to each other, having an high opinion of my taciturnity, revealed to me their love-secrets, in order to induce me to give them copies to write, alter, or correct, for answers to their lovers’ letters ; nor did any one of them ever know that I was the secretary to 
tlle
others.”
In his choice ot an employment he was chiefly guided by his love of reading. In 1706 he was bound apprentice to John Wilde, a printer at Stationers Hall. Although he served a rigid master, he contrived to steal from his hours of rest and relaxation some precious intervals for the improvement of his mind. After the completion of his apprenticeship, he continued for five or six years to work as a compositor and corrector in a printing office, and part of this time as an overseer. Thus he gradually emerged to the situation of a master-printer, having first taken an office in a court in Fleet-street, and afterwards in Salisbury-court. As an apprentice he had been diligent and conscientious, as a master he was assiduous and liberal. In addition to the proper avocations of a printer, he on various occasions undertook to write indices, prefaces, and, as he describes them, honest dedications. The punctuality, together with the integrity and liberality of his dealings, speedily procured him friends, and his business became very prosperous. Through the interest of the Speaker, Mr Onslow, he was employed to print the Journals of the House of Commons, in twenty-six volumes folio. In 1754 he was chosen master of the Stationers’ Company. In 1760 he purchased a moiety of the patent of law-printer to his majesty, and in this branch of his business he was conjoined with Miss Catherine Lintot. He was thus enabled to live in comfort, and to make a suitable provision for his family. Like other prosperous citizens, he set a due value on country air, and had first a residence at North-end near Hammersmith, and afterwards at Parsons-green near Fulham, where he spent such intervals of time as he could spare from business, and where he wτ as seldom without visitors.
The first work that recommended him to public notice was “ Pamela, or Virtue rewarded,” published in the year 1741. The tw, o volumes, of which it originally consisted, appear to have been written in less than three months. Its
success was almost unprecedented, for it reached a fifth edition within the space of a year. “ The printer in Salis-bury-court,” says Mrs Barbauld, “ was to create a new species of writing ; his name was to be familiar in the mouths of the great, the witty, and the gay, and he was destined to give one motive more to the rest of Europe to learn the language of his country.” The moral tendency of this novel was considered as so excellent, that it was even recommended from the pulpit, particularly by Dr Slocock of Christ Church in Surrey. This estimate may now excite some degree of surprise ; and Dr Watts, to whom the author had sent his two volumes, wrote to him that he understood the ladies could not read them without blushing. Other inconsistencies in the work were powerfully ridiculed by Fielding in his History of Joseph Andrews, whom he introduces to his readers as the brother of Pamela. This was an injury which Richardson, though an amiable and benevolent man, found it very difficult, if not impossible to forgive. In his correspondence with his admiring friends, he predicted that Fielding would speedily sink into oblivion. But, in the present age, for every reader of Pamela and Clarissa there are at least five hundred of Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones.
The brilliant success of this novel prompted some nameless individual to write and publish a continuation of the story, under the title of “ Pamela in high Life.” Richardson, who might very safely have disregarded such an attempt to invade his province, was thus induced to add a second part, which however made no addition to his reputation. “ These volumes,” says Mrs Barbauld, “ two in number, are, like most second parts, greatly inferior to the first. They are superfluous, for the plan was already completed ; and they are dull, for instead of incident and passion, they are filled with heavy sentiment, in diction far from elegant- A great part of it aims to palliate, by counter-criticism, the faults which had been found in the first parts. It is less a continuation, than the author’s defence of himself.” On the story of Pamela, the famous dramatist Goldoni has written two of his plays,
Pamela Nubile
and 
Pamela Maritata.
• In the year 1749, he published the first two volumes of “ The History of Clarissa Harlowe.” This work, which he extended to eight volumes, is the chief foundation of his celebrity as an original and inventive writer. Nottvith-Standing its inordinate length, the book long continued to enjoy an almost unrivalled share of public favour, and, whatever may be its defects or redundancies, this favour could only be secured by the author’s potver over the imagination and moral feelings. The outline of the story is sufficiently simple, nor is the curiosity of the reader excited by intricate plots and marvellous adventures. It is a work, not of action and enterprise, but of character and sentiment. Clarissa was exhibited in a French dress by Prevost ; but he has given an abridgement rather than a translation ; and, as he has stated, the book required some softening to adapt it to the more delicate taste of his countrymen. A more faithful version was afterwards published
by
Le Tourneur. It was translated into Dutch by Stinstra, and into German under the auspices of the illustrious Haller.
His next production was “ The History of Sir Charles Grandison,” published in 1753, in seven volumes. In his previous works he had given ample delineations of female character, and he now endeavoured to exhibit a pattern of a perfect man. Whatever is graceful and engaging in the man of spirit and the fine gentleman, it was his aim to unite with every moral virtue, and with the strict observance of Christian principles. This was certainly a difficult enterprise ; and the writer’s genius is more successfully displayed in delineating the character of Clementina, than in delineating that of his hero. Of all the representations of madness, says Dr Warton, that of Clementina “ is the
most deeply interesting. I know not whether even the madness of Lear is wrought up, and expressed by so many little strokes of nature and passion. It is absolute pedantry to prefer the madness of Orestes in Euripides to that of Clementina.'’ But it is the great fault of Richardson, that he never knows when to withdraw his hand from the canvass ; and he has diminished the effect of this character by prolonging her appearances beyond the proper crisis for her retirement.
The nervous system of Richardson was naturally weak ; and during his latter years his hand shook, and he was subject to frequent fits of giddiness. His disorders having at length terminated in apoplexy, he died on the 4th of July 1761, at the age of seventy-two. He left behind him the character of a virtuous and benevolent man, highly respected in all the relations of private life. His chief weakness seems to have been vanity, which is sufficiently displayed in his private correspondence. His success in literature was so great and so unexpected, and he received so much flattery from his friends, especially from his female friends, that it would have required a very firm texture of mind to resist the access of that passion which so easily converts a wise man into a fool. ∙
Richardson was twice married. His first tvife was Martha the daughter of Allington Wilde, a printer of Clerken-well. She bore him five sons and a daughter, who all died young. His second wife, who survived him for many years, was Elizabeth the sister of Mr Leake, a bookseller of Bath. She became the mother of a son and five daughters. The son died at an early age, but four of the daughters survived him ; Mary, married in 1757 to Mr Ditcher, an eminent surgeon of Bath ; Martha, married in 1762 to Edward Bridgen, Esq.; Anne, who died unmarried in 1804; and Sarah, married to Mr Crowther, surgeon of Boswell-court.
Besides his three novels in nineteen volumes, he published some other works. I. The Négociations of Sir Thomas Roe, in his Embassy to the Ottoman Porte, from 1621 to 1628 inclusive. 1740, fol. 2. An edition of Æsop’s Fables, with Reflections. 3. Familiar Letters to and from several Persons upon business, and other subjects. He furnished some additions to tlle sixth edition of De Foe’s Tour through Great Britain ; and some of his contributions are to be found in periodical works. Long after his death appeared “ The Correspondence of Samuel Richardson, author of Pamela, Clarissa, and Sir Charles Grandison ; selected from the original manuscripts bequeathed by him to his family. To which are prefixed a biographical account of that author, and observations on his writings, by Anna Lætitia Barbauld.” Lond. 1804, 6 vols. 12mo. This publication has no tendency to augment his reputation.
The most eminent writers of our own, and even of foreign countries, have paid their tribute to the talents of Richardson, whose works have been published in almost every language and country of Europe. They have been greatly admired, notwithstanding every dissimilitude of manners, and everj’ disadvantage of translation. Diderot, in ITTS Essay on Dramatic Poetry, speaking of the means employed to move the passions, mentions Richardson as a perfect master of that art- “ How striking,” says he, “ how pathetic are his descriptions ! His personages, though silent, are alive before me ; and of those who speak, the actions are still more affecting than the words.” Rousseau, in his letter to M. d’Alembert, speaking of the novels of Richardson, asserts, “ that nothing was ever written equal to, or even approaching them, in any language.” Dr Johnson, in his introduction to the ninety-seventh number of the Rambler, which was written by Richardson, observes that tlle reader was indebted for that day’s entertainment to an author “ from whom the age has received greater favours, who has enlarged the knowledge of human nature, and taught the passions to move at the command of virtue.” In his
Life of Rowe, he says, “ The character of Lothario seems to have been expanded by Richardson into that of Lovelace ; but he has excelled his original in the moral effect of the fiction. Lothario, with gaiety which cannot be hated, and bravery which cannot be despised, retains too much of the spectator’s kindness. It was in the power of Richardson alone to teach us at once esteem and detestation ; to make virtuous resentment overpower all the benevolence which wit, and elegance, and courage, naturally excite ; and to lose at la^bhe hero in the villain.” Dr Young has remarked, that Richardson, with the mere advantages of nature, improved by a very moderate progress in education, struck out at once, and of his own accord, into a new province of writing, in which he succeeded to admiration. And, what is more remarkable, he not only began, but finished, the plan on which he set out, leaving no room for any one after him to render it more complete ; and not one of the various writers tl*t have ever since attempted to imitate him, have in any respect equalled, or at all approached near him. This kind of romance is peculiarly his own ; and “ I consider him,” he continues, “ as a truly great natural ge-ιWus ; as great and supereminen^n his way as Shakspeare and Milton were in theirs.”
Richabdson,
Jonathan,
a celebrated painter of heads, was bom about the year 1665, and against his inclination was placed by his father-in-law apprentice to a scrivener, with whom he lived six yeafs. Having obtained his freedom by
tlle
death of his master, he followed the bent of his disposition, and at the age of twenty became the disciple of Riley, with whom he lived four years, whose niece he married, and of whose manner he acquired enough to maintain a solid and lasting reputation, even during the lives of Kneller and Dahl, and to remain at the head of the profession when they no longer continued to exercise it.
There is strength, roundness, and boldness in his colouring ; but his men want dignity, and his women grace. The good sense of the nation is characterised in his portraits. We perceive that he lived in an age when neither enthusiasm nor servility was predominant. Yet with a pencil so firm, possessed of a numerous and excellent collection of drawings, full of the theory, and profound in reflections on his art, he drew nothing well below the head, and was void of imagination. His attitudes, draperies, and back-grounds, are totally insipid and unmeaning ; so ill did he apply to his own practice the sagacious rules and hints which he bestowed on others. Though he wrote with fire and judgment, his paintings owed little to either. No man dived deeper into the inexhaustible stores of Raphael, or was more smitten with the native lustre of Vandyck. Yet though capable of relishing the elevation of the one and the elegance of the other, he could never contrive to see with their eyes when he was to copy nature himself. One wonders that he could comment on their works so well, and imitate them so little.
He quitted business some years before his death ; but his temperance and virtue contributed to protract his life to a great length in the full enjoyment of his understanding, and in the felicity of domestic friendship. He had a paralytic stroke that affected his arm, yet never disabled him from his customary walks and exercise. He had been in St James’s Park, and died suddenly at his house in Queen’s-square on his return home, on the 28th of May 1745, when he had passed the eightieth year of his age. He left a son and four daughters ; one of whom was married to his disciple Mr Hudson, and another to Mr Grigson, an attorney. The taste and learniβg of the son, and the harmony in which he lived with his father, are visible in the joint works which they composed. In 1719 the father published tlvo discourses : 1. An Essay on the w hole Art of Criticism as it relates to Painting ; 2. An Argument in behalf of the Science of a Connoisseur. In 1722 came forth
“ An Account of some of the Statues, Bas-reliefs, Drawings, and Pictures, in Italy, &c. with Remarks by Mr Richardson, senior and junior.” The son made the journey ; and from his notes, letters, and observations, they both at his return compiled this valuable work. As the father was a formal man, with a slow but loud and sonorous voice, and, in truth, with some affectation in his manner, and as there is much singularity in his style and expression, these peculiarities, for they were scarcely foibles, struck superficial readers, and between the laughers and the envious the book was much ridiculed. Yet both this and the former are full of matter, good sense, and instruction ; and the very quaintness of some expressions, and their laboured novelty, shew the difficulty which the author experienced in his attempts to convey mere visible ideas through the medium of language. If these authors were censured when they confined themselves within their own circle, it was not to be expected that they would be treated with milder indulgence when they ventured into a sister region. In 1734, they published a very thick octavo, containing explanatory notes and remarks on Milton’s Paradise Lost, with the life of the author, and a discourse on the poem. Again were the good sense, the judicious criticisms, and the sentiments that broke forth in this work, forgotten in the singularities by which it is distinguished. The father having said, in apology for being little conversant in ancient literature, that he had looked into the classics through his son, Hogarth, whom a quibble could furnish with wit, drew the father peeping through the nether end of a telescope, with which li⅛son was perforated, at a Virgil placed on a high shelf. Richardson, indeed, was as incapable of reaching the sublime or harmonious in poetry, as he was in painting, though so capable of illustrating both. Some specimens of verse that he has given us here and there in his works excite no curiosity for more, though he informs us in his Milton, that if painting was his wife, poetry had been his secret concubine.
RICHELET, Cæsab Peteb, a French writer, born in 1631, at Chemin in Champagne, was the friend of Patru and Albancourt ; and like them applied himself to the study ofthe French language with success. He compiled a dictionary of that language, full of new and useful remarks ; but exceptionable, as containing many satirical reflections and obscenities. The best edition is that of Lyon, 1728, three volumes folio. He also collected a small dictionary of rhymes, and composed some other pieces in the grammatical and critical department. He died in 1698.
RICHELIEU, John Abmand du Plessis de, cardinal of Richelieu and Fronsac, bishop of Lucon, &c. was born at Paris in 1585. He was possessed of excellent parts ; and at the age of twenty-two he had the address to obtain a dispensation to enjoy the bishopric of Lucon. He applied himself in a particular manner to the function of preaching; and his reputation procured him the office of almoner to the queen Mary de’ Medicis. His abilities in the management of affairs advanced him to be secretary of state in 1616; and the king soon gave him the preference to all his other secretaries. The death of the marquis d’Ancre having produced a revolution in state affairs, Richelieu retired to Avignon, where he employed himself in composing books of controversy and piety. The king having recalled him to court, he was made a cardinal in 1622 ; and, two years after, first minister of state, and grand-master of the navigation. In 1626, the Isle of Rhee was preserved by his care ; and in 1628 Rochelle was taken, the haven having been enclosed by the famous dyke which he ordered to be raised. He accompanied the king to the siege of Cazal, and contributed not a little to the raising of it in 1629. He also obliged the Huguenots to the peace at Alets, which proved the min of that party. He took Pamerol1 and succoured Cαzal, besieged by Spinola. In the mean time tlle
nobles found fault with his conduct, and persuaded the king to discard him. The cardinal, for his part, was unmoved, and by his reasonings overthrew what was thought to be determined against him ; so that, instead of being disgraced, he from that moment became more powerful than ever. He punished all his enemies in the same manner as they would have punished him ; and the day which produced this event, so glorious to Cardinal de Richelieu, was called the
day of dupes.
This able minister had from thence forward an ascendency over the king’s mind ; and he now resolved to humble the excessive pride of the house of Austria. For that purpose he concluded a treaty with Gustavus Adolphus king of Sweden, for carrying the war into the heart of Germany. He also entered into a league with the duke of Bavaria ; secured Lorraine ; raised a part of the princes of the empire against the emperor; treated w'ith the Dutch to continue the war against Spain ; favoured the Catalans and Portuguese till they shook off the Spanish yoke ; and, in short, took so many different measures, that he accomplished his design ; and after having carried on the war with success, was thinking of concluding it by a peace, when he died at Paris on the 4th of December 1642, aged fifty-eight. He was interred in the Sorbonne, where a magnificent mausoleum is erected to his memory. This great politician made the arts and sciences flourish ; formed the botanical garden at Paris, called the
king’s garden ;
founded the French academy ; established the royal printing-house ; erected the palace afterwards called
Le Palais Royal,
which he presented to the king ; and rebuilt the Sorbonne with a magnificence that appears truly royal. Besides his books of controversy and piety, there pass under tlle name of this minister, a Journal, in 2 vols. 12mo ; and a Political Testament, in 12mo; all treating of politics and state affairs.
RtcHELiEU,
or
Sοrell,
a river of Lower Canada, flowing in a northerly direction from Lake Champlain to the great St Lawrence. It is the principal channel by which the waters of the lake are conveyed to the latter river ; and by being made navigable for vessels of large size throughout its whole extent, it would afford a most convenient means of commercial intercourse with the interior of New York, and form a direct chain of communication with the great wr estern republic. This river is remarkable for being much narrower at its embouchure than at the place from which it flows. From its mouth to the basin of Chamblay it is about two hundred and fifty yards wide ; thence to the Isle du Portage the breadth is five hundred yards ; beyond this it expands to double that size, and continues to enlarge up to St John’s, from which there is a ship-navigation to the towns on Lake Champlain. From Chamblay downwards to the St Lawτence the current is regular and gentle ; but from Lake Champlain to the basin it is hurried, in some places violent, and in others broken by rapids. The channel is, however, of great value and importance, and the medium of considerable trade.
Richelieu
Islands,
a cluster of islands, about a hundred in number, in the river St Lawrence, situated at the southwest entrance of Lake St Peter. They lie low, and are liable to be overflowed in spring, when the lake is swelled by the melting of snow and ice. Some of them afford good pasturage for cattle, and they all abound with wild fowl.
RICHES, a word used always in the plural number, means wealth, money, possession, or a splendid sumptuous appearance. When used to express the fortune of private persons, whether patrimonial or acquired, it signifies
opulence ;
a term which expresses not the enjoyment, but the possession, of numerous superfluities. By the riches of a state or kingdom we mean the produce of industry, of commerce, of different incorporated bodies, of the internal and external administration of the principal members of which the society is composed.
RICHMOND, a city, port of entry, and the metropolis of Virginia, one of the United States of North America. It is situated on the north bank of James River, just below 
tlle
falls, one hundred and fifty miles from the mouth of the . river, and one hundred and twenty-three south-west from Washington. The situation of tllis city is alike picturesque, salubrious, and favourable for commerce. The public buildings are numerous, and some considerable manufactures are here carried on. The capitol, a handsome structure, occupies a commanding situation on a rising ground. Among the churches, that called the Monumental Church is most beautiful and conspicuous. It is erected on the spot where, in 1811, the theatre of Richmond w, as burned to the ground during the performance, and above seventy persons perished in the flames. A monument in front commemorates the event, and hence the name of thc church. There are a number of other religious houses, a sufficiency of good schools, and a well-regulated penitentiary. Richmond is the natural depot of tobacco, wheat, and hemp, raised in the populous county watered by the river. The falls extend six miles, during w, hich space the James descends eighty feet. A canal passes around these falls, and the river is navigable for batteaux two hundred and twenty miles above them ; by this means the city is connected with a very extensive and productive back country. The inland, coasting, and foreign trade is extensive. Manchester, on the opposite side of the river, is connected with it by means of bridges. In 1830 the population amounted to 16,060 ; in 1839 it may be estimated at about 20,000. Long. 77. 21. W. Lat. 37. 32. N.    (r. r. r.)
Richmond, a town of the county of Surrey, in the hundred of Kingston, nine miles from London, on the right bank of the river Thames, over which is an elegant bridge leading to Twickenham. It was anciently called Sheen, and a palace adjoining was long the residence of our monarchs. The park still belongs to the crown. A hill rises from the town, of great celebrity for the extent and beauty of the prospect which it affords. The brow of the hill has a delightful promenade, and is adorned by residences of great taste and magnificence, and by hotels, where every accommodation that luxury can desire is supplied, though at the most extravagant prices. Other houses of the purest taste are built along the bank, and to the edge of the river. The vicinity to the royal gardens of Kew form an inducement to a residence at this delightful place, which is one of the desirable retreats from the metropolis. It has a neat parish church, or rather chapel to Kingston. The population amounted in 1801 to 4628, in 1811 to 5219, in 1821 to 5994, and in 1831 to 7243.
Richmond, a market and borough town of the north riding of the county of York, 254 miles from London. It stands on the east side of a steep hill rising from the banks of the river Swale, which nearly encircles the town. It is finely situated, and well built. It was fortified in ancient times, and probably more populous than it is at present. It now gives the title of duke to one branch of the illegitimate descendants of Charles H. It returns two members to the House of Commons, and is governed by a mayor, four aldermen, and eleven councillors. The country around it is celebrated for its breed of horses, and annual races are still held near it. There is a good market on Saturday. The population amounted in 1821 to 3546, and in 1831 to 3900.
RICKMANSWORTH, a market-town of the county of Hertford. It is in the hundred of Cashio, seventeen miles from London, and stands at the spot where the river Gade falls into the Colne, which latter forms a part of the Grand Junction Canal. It is also near the course of the railway by which London is connected with Birmingham, and is thus highly favoured with respect to the facilities of communication. The church is a fine large fabric of an ancient date. The town has some trade in straw-hats and in
making thread-lace. There are several mills in the neigh-bourhood occupied in making cotton and silk goods, and many in making paper. It has a weekly market on Saturday, though now but little attended. The population amounted in 1801 to 2973, in 1811 to 3230, in 1821 to 3940, and in 1831 to 4574.
RIDEAU, in
Fortification,
a small elevation of earth, extending itself lengthwise on a plain, serving to cover a camp or give an advantage in a post.
Rideau is sometimes also used for a trench, the earth of which is thrown up on its side, to serve as a parapet for covering the men.
RIDICULE, in matters of literature, is that species of writing which excites contempt with laughter.
The
ridiculous,
says Lord Kames, differs from the
risible.
A risible object produces an emotion of laughter merely ; a ridiculous object is improper as well as risible, and produces a mixed emotion, which is vented by a laugh of derision or scorn.
Burlesque, though a great engine of ridicule, is not confined to that subject ; for it is clearly distinguishable into burlesque that excites laughter merely, and burlesque that provokes derision or ridicule. A grave subject in which there is no impropriety, may be brought down by a certain colouring so as to be risible ; which is the case of
Virgil Travestie,
and also the case of the
Secchia Rapita;
the authors laugh first, in order to make their readers laugh. The
Lutrin
is a burlesque poem of the other sort, laying hold of a low and trifling incident, to expose the luxury, indolence, and contentious spirit of a set of monks. Boileau, the author, gives a ridiculous air to the subject, by dressing it in the heroic style, and affecting to consider it as of the utmost dignity and importance. In a compositiori of this kind, no image professedly ludicrous ought to find quarter, because such images destroy the contrast ; and accordingly the author shows always the grave face, and never once betrays a smile.
Though the burlesque that aims at ridicule produces its effects by elevating the style far above the subject, yet it has limits beyond which the elevation ought not to be carried. The poet, consulting the imagination of his readers, ought to confine himself to such images as are lively and readily apprehended ; a strained elevation, soaring above an ordinary reach of fancy, makes not a pleasant impression. The reader, fatigued with being always upon the stretch, is soon disgusted ; and if he persevere, becomes thoughtless and indifferent. Further, a fiction gives no pleasure unless it be painted in colours so lively as to produce some perception of reality ; which never can be done effectually where the images are formed with labour or difficulty. For these reasons, we cannot avoid condemning the
Batrachomyomachia,
said to be the composition of Homer : it is beyond the power of imagination to form a clear and lively image of frogs and mice acting with the dignity of the highest of our species ; nor can we form a conception of the reality of such an action, in any manner so distinct as to interest our affections even in the slightest degree.
The Rape of the Lock is of a character clearly distinguishable from those now mentioned ; it is not properly a burlesque performance, but what may rather be termed
an heroi-cοmical poem ;
it treats a gay and familiar subject with pleasantry, and with a moderate degree of dignity. The author puts not on a mask like Boileau, nor professes to make us laugh like Tassoni. The Rape of the Lock is a genteel species of writing, less strained than those mentioned ; and is pleasant or ludicrous without having ridicule for its chief aim ; giving way, however, to ridicule, where it naturally arises from a particular character, such as that of Sir Plume.
Those who have a talent for ridicule, which is seldom
united with a taste for delicate and refined beauties, are quick-sighted in improprieties ; and these they eagerly grasp, in order to gratify tbeir favourite propensity. Persons galled are provoked to maintain that ridicule is improper for grave subjects. Subjects really grave are by no means fit for ridicule ; but then it is urged against them, that, when called in question whether a certain subject be really grave, ridicule is the only means of determining the controversy. Hence a celebrated question, whether ridicule be or be not a test of truth.
On one side it is observed that the objects of ridicule are falsehood, incongruity, impropriety, or turpitude of certain kinds ; but as the object of every excited passion must be examined by reason before we can determine whether it be proper or improper, so ridicule must, apparently at least, establish the truth of the improprieties designed to excite the passion of contempt. Hence it comes in aid of argument and reason, when its impressions on the imagination are consistent with the nature of things ; but when it strikes the fancy and affections with fictitious images, it becomes the instrument of deceit. But however ridicule may impress the idea of apparent turpitude or falsehood in the imagination, yet still reason remains the supreme judge; and thus ridicule can never be the final test or touchstone of truth and falsehood.
On the other side, it is contended that ridicule is not a subject of reasoning, but of sense or taste. Stating the question, then, in more accurate terms, whether the sense of ridicule be the proper test for distinguishing ridiculous objects from what are not so, they proceed thus. No person doubts that our sense of beauty is the true test of what is beautiful ; and our sense of grandeur, of what is great or sublime. Is it more doubtful whether our sense of ridicule be the true test of what is ridiculous ? It is not only the true test, but indeed the only test ; for this subject comes not, more than beauty or grandeur, under the province of reason. Ifany subject, by the influence of fashion or custom, have acquired a degree of veneration to which it is not naturally entitled, what are the proper means for wiping off the artificial colouring, and displaying the subject in its true light ? A man of true taste sees the subject without the disguise ; but if we hesitate, let him apply the test of ridicule, which separates it from its artificial connections, and exposes it naked with all its native improprieties.
RIDING. See Horsemanship.
Riding, in naval affairs, is the state of a ship’s being retained in a particular station, by means of one or more cables with their anchors, which are for this purpose sunk into the bottom of the sea, &c. in order to prevent the vessel from being driven at the mercy of the wind or current. A rope is said to
ride,
wτ hen one of the turns by which it is wound about the capstern or windlass lies over another, so as to interrupt the operation of heaving.
Riding
Athwart,
the position of a ship which lies across the direction of the wind and tide, when the former is so strong as to prevent her from falling into the current of the latter.
Riding
between tlie Wind and Tide,
the situation of a vessel at anchor, when the wind and tide act upon her in direct opposition, in such a manner as to destroy the effort of each other upon her hull ; so that she is in a manner balanced between their reciprocal force, and rides without the least strain on her cables. When a ship does not labour heavily, or feel a great strain when anchored in an open road or bay, she is said to ride easy. On the contrary, when she pitches violently into the sea, so as to strain her cables, masts,'or hull, it is called
riding hard,
and the vessel is termed a
bad roader.
RIDLEY, Nicholas, bishop of London, and a martyr to the Reformation, was descended of an ancient family, and born in the beginning of the sixteenth century, at Wil-
montswick in Northumberland. From the grammar-school of Newcastle-upon-Tyne he was sent to Pembroke Hall in Cambridge, in the year 1518, and was there supported by his uncle Dr Robert Ridley, fellow of Queen’s College. In 1522 he took his first degree in arts ; two years after, was elected fellow ; and, in 1525, he commenced master of arts. In 1527, having taken orders, he was sent by his uncle, for further improvement, to the Sorbonne at Paris ; from thence he went to Louvain, and continued abroad till the year 1529. On his return to Cambridge, he was chosen under-treasurer of the university ; and, in 1533, was elected senior proctor. He afterwards proceeded bachelor of divinity, and was chosen orator and a chaplain of the university. At this time he was much admired as a preacher and disputant. Hc lost his kind uncle in 1536 ; but was soon after patronised by Dr Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, who made him his domestic chaplain, and presented him to the vicarage of Heme in East Kent, where, we are told, he preached the doctrine of the Reformation. In 1540, having commenced doctor of divinity, he was made king’s chaplain ; and in the same year was elected master of his college in Cambridge. Soon after, Ridley was collated to a prebend in the church of Canterbury ; and it was not long before he was accused in the bishop’s court, at the instigation of Bishop Gardiner, of preaching against the doctrine of the Six Articles. The matter being referred to Cran-mer, Ridley was acquitted. In 1545, he was made a prebendary of Westminster ; in 1547 was presented, by the fellows of Pembroke Hall, to the living of Soham, in the diocese of Norwich ; and the same year was consecrated bishop of Rochester. In 1550 he was translated to the see of London. During the same year he was one of the commissioners for examining Bishop Gardiner, and concurred in his deprivation. In 1552, returning from Cambridge, he, unfortunately for himself, paid a visit to the Princess, afterwards Queen Mary ; to whom, prompted by his zeal for reformation, he expressed himself with too much freedom ; for she was scarcely seated on the throne when Ridley was doomed a victim to her revenge. With Cranmer and Latimer he was burnt alive at Oxford, on the l6th of October 1555. Among other works, he wrote, 1. A Treatise concerning Images in Churches ; 2. A brief Declaration of the Lord’s Supper ; 3. Certain godly and comfortable Conferences between Bishop Ridley and Mr Hugh Latimer, during their imprisonment ; 4. A Comparison between the comfortable Doctrine of the Gospel and the Traditions of the Popish religion.
Ridlev,
Gloster,
was of the same family with the preceding. He was born at sea, in the year 1702, on board the Gloucester East Indiaman, from which circumstance he obtained his Christian name. He was educated at Winchester school, and afterwards obtained a fellowship of New College, Oxford, where he took the degree of LL. B. in 1729. He paid his court to thc Muses at an early period, and laid the foundation of those solid and elegant acquisitions which afterwards distinguished him as a divine, historian, and poet. During a vacation in 1728, he joined with four friends in composing a tragedy called “ The Fruitless Redress,” each undertaking an act, agreeably to a plan which they had previously concerted. It was offered to Mr Wilkes, but never acted, and is still in manuscript. Dr Ridley in his youth was extremely attached to theatrical performances. The Redress, and another tragedy called Jugurtha, were exhibited at Midhurst in Sussex ; and the actors were chiefly the gentlemen who assisted him in their composition. We are informed that he played Marc Antony, Jaffier, Horatio, and Moneses, with very great applause, which may be readily inferred from his graceful manner of speaking in the pulpit.
During a great part of his life he had only the small college living of Westow in Norfolk, and that of Poplar in
Middlesex, which was the place of his residence. After an interval of some years, his college added to these the donative of Romford in Essex, which left him little or no time for what he considered as the necessary studies of his profession. Yet in this situation he remained in the possession of, and satisfied with domestic felicity, and enjoyed the intimate friendship of some who were equally distinguished for worth and learning.
The eight Sermons which he preached at Lady Moyer’s lecture it 1740 and 1741 were given to the public in 1742. In the year 1756 he was invited to
go
to Ireland as first chaplain to the duke of Bedford, but declined to accept the offer. In the year 1763 he published the Life of Bishop Ridley, in 4to, by subscription, from the profits of which he was enabled to purchase L.800 in the public funds. In the year 1765 he published his Review of Philips’s Life of Cardinal Pole. In 1767 the university of Oxford conferred upon him by diploma the degree of D. D. In 1768 he was presented by Archbishop Secker with a rich prebend in the cathedral church of Salisbury ; the only reward he received from the great during a long and useful life. He was at last worn out with infirmities, and died in 1774, leaving behind him a wife and four daughters. Dr Ridley survived both his sons, who were young men of considerable abilities. The elder, called James, was author of Tales of the Genii, and some other literary performances ; and his brother Thomas was sent as a writer to Madras by the East India Company, but he suddenly died of the smallpox.
RIENZI, Nicholas Gabrini de, one of the most singular characters of the fourteenth century, was born at Rome, but it is not certainly known in what year. His father, as some affirm, was a vintner, but, according to others, a miller, and his mother was a laundress, yet they found means to give their son a liberal education ; and to a fine natural understanding he added uncommon application. He was well acquainted with the laws and customs of nations ; and had a vast memory, which enabled him to retain much of Cicero, Valcrius Maximus, Livy, the two Senecas, and, in particular, Cæsar’s Commentaries, which he constantly perused. This extensive erudition proved the foundation of his future rise. He acquired the reputation of a great antiquary, from the time which he spent among the inscriptions to be found at Rome, and these inspired him with exalted ideas of thc liberty, the grandeur, and justice of the old Romans. He even persuaded himself, and found means to persuade others, that he should one day be the restorer of the Roman republic. The credulity of the people was powerfully encouraged and strengthened by his advantageous stature, by the attractions of his countenance, and by that air of consequence which he could assume at pleasure. The joint energy of all these prepossessing qualities made a deep and almost indelible impression on the minds of his hearers.
Nor was his fame merely confined to the vulgar, for he even ingratiated himself into the good opinion of many distinguished personages belonging to the administration. The Romans chose him one of their deputies to Pope Clement VI. then at Avignon. The purport of this mission was to persuade his holiness that his absence from the capital was inimical to its interest. His commanding eloquence and gay conversation charmed the court of Avignon ; and Rienzi was thus encouraged to tell the pope, that the great men of Rome were public thieves, robbers, adulterers, and profligates, by whose example the most horrid crimes were sanctioned. This ill-timed freedom ∙of speech made Cardinal Colonna his enemy, though the friend of genuine merit, because he thought that some of his family were included in this flagrant accusation. Rienzi was disgraced, and fell into extreme misery, vexation, and sickness, which, by being united with indigence, brought him to a hospital. But
as the cardinal was compassionate, the offender was again brought before the pope, who, being informed that Rienzi was a good man, and the strenuous advocate of equity and justice, gave him higher proofs of his esteem and confidence than before. He was appointed apostolic notary, and sent back to Rome loaded with the effects of papal munificence.
The functions of this office he executed in such a manner as to become the idol of the people, whose affections he laboured to secure by exclaiming against the vices of the great, rendering them as odious as possible ; for which imprudent liberties he was dismissed from office. In this situation of his affairs he endeavoured to kindle and keep alive in the minds of the people a zeal for their ancient liberties, displaying emblems of the former grandeur and present decline of the city, accompanied with harangues and many expressive predictions. Such an intrepid, and at the same time extraordinary conduct, made some regard him as a lunatic, while Otllers hailed him as their guardian and deliverer. When he supposed that the numbers attached to his interest were sufficiently strong, he called them together, and gave them a dismal picture of the state of the city, overrun with debaucheries, which their governors had neither capacity to correct nor to amend. He declared that the pope could, even at the rate of fourpence, raise 100,000 florins by fuel, an equal sum by salt, and as much more by the customs and other duties ; insinuating that he did not seize on tlle revenues without the consent of his holiness.
This artful tale so powerfully animated his hearers, that they signified their determination to secure these treasures for whatever purposes might be most convenient, and that to his will they would cheerfully devote themselves. This resolution he caused them confirm by an oath ; and it is said that he had the address to procure from the pope’s vicar the sanction of his authority. On the 20th of May, being Whitsunday, he averred that he did nothing but in consequence of the particular inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and about nine o’clock he came out of the church with his head bare, attended by the pope’s vicar, and about a hundred men in armour. Having proceeded directly to the capitol, he declared from the rostrum, w’ith even more than his wonted boldness and energy, that the hour of their emancipation was at length arrived ; that he himself was to be their glorious deliverer, and that he poured contempt on the dangers to which he might be exposed in the service of his holiness, and for the happy deliverance of the people. The laws of the “ good establishment” were next ordered to be read ; and he rested assured that the Romans would resolve to observe those laws, in consequence of which he pledged himself to re-establish them in a short time in their ancient grandeur and magnificence.
Plenty and security were the blessings promised by the good establishment, together with the humbling of the nobles, who were regarded as common oppressors. Such ideas filled the people with transport, and they became zealously attached to the fanaticism of Rienzi. The multitude declared him to be sovereign of Rome, to whom they granted the power of life and death, of rewards and punishments, of making and repealing laws, of treating with foreign powers, and a full aud absolute authority over all the Roman territories.
Having thus arrived at the zenith of his ambition, he concealed his artifice as much as possible, and pretended to be extremely averse to accept of their proffered honours, unless they would make choice of the pope’s vicar to be his coadjutor, and find means to procure the sanction of the pope himself. His wish to have the vicar, bishop of Or-vieto, as his coadjutor was readily complied with, while all the honours were paid to Rienzi, the duped bishop enjoying but a mere nominal authority. Rienzi was seated in his triumphal chariot, and the people were dismissed, overwhelmed with joy and expectation. This strange election was ratified by the pope, although it was impossible that he could inwardly approve of it ; and to procure a title exclusive of the prerogative of his holiness, was the next object of Rienzi’s ambition. He sought, therefore, and readily obtained the title of magistrate, which was conferred on him and his coadjutor, with the addition of
deliverers of their country.
The conduct of Rienzi immediately subsequent to this elevation justly procured him esteem and respect, as well from the Romans as from neighbouring states ; but as his beginning was mean and obscure, he soon became intoxicated with his sudden, his extraordinary elevation, and the incensed nobles having conspired against him, succeeded in their attempt to drive him from an authority which he had not the prudence or address to retain more than six months. At this critical period, his life was only preserved by flight, and by the disguises to which he afterwards had recourse.
Having made an ineffectual effort at Rome to regain his authority, he proceeded to Prague to Charles king of the Romans. In consequence of this rash step he was sent as a prisoner to Avignon, where he continued for three years. When he procured his enlargement, Pope Innocent IV., who succeeded Clement, well knew that many of the Romans were still attached to Rienzi, and therefore he made choice of him as a fit object for assisting him in his design of humbling the other petty tyrants of Italy. In short, he was set at liberty, and appointed governor and senator of Rome. It was hoped that his chastisement would teach him more moderation in future, and that gratitude would induce him to preserve an inviolable attachment to the holy see during the remainder of his life. He met with considerable opposition in assuming his new authority, but cunning and resolution enabled him to overcome it. But gratifying his passions, which were violent in the extreme, and disgracing his office and character by acts of cruelty, he was murdered on the 8th of October 1354.
Thus died Nicholas Rienzi, one of the most extraordinary characters of the age in which he lived ; who, having formed a conspiracy big with extravagance, and carried it into execution nearly in the face of the whole w, orld, with such remarkable success as to become sovereign of Rome ; having blessed the Romans with plenty, liberty, and justice ; having afforded protection to some princes, and proved a terror to others ; having become the arbiter of crowned heads, established the ancient majesty and power of the Roman republic, and filled all Europe with his fame ; finally, having procured their sanction whose authority he had usurped in opposition to their interests, he fell at last a sacrifice to the nobles whose ruin he had vowed, and to those vast projects, the execution of which was only prevented by his death,
RIESENGEBIRGE, a range of mountains in the dominions of Prussia, and in part of Austria, which commences on the northward on the borders of Lusatia, and separates Bohemia from Silesia and Moravia, till it terminates by forming a junction with the Carpathian range to the southward. The loftiest part of the range is that which lies between the sources of the rivers Neisse and Bober. The general height does not much exceed 3000 feet, but several of the peaks attain a much greater elevation. Of these the most remarkable are two ; the Schneeberg, which is 5300 feet, and the Sturmhaube, which is 5100 feet in height. The summit of the former commands a prospect of more than sixty miles round, including the city of Breslau to the north, and of Prague to the south. The intersecting valleys are many of them picturesque and mostly fertile ; but the higher parts are unfavourable to tlle growth of corn, from the scarcity of which the inhabitants in most winters suffer severely.
RIETI, one of the delegations or provinces into which the papal dominions are divided. It is a wild and moun
tainous district, containing two cities, sixteen market-towns, with many villages and hamlets, and 65,750 inhabitants. The capital is the city ofthe same name situated on the river Belino, near its junction with the Turano. It contains ten parish churches, five monasteries, seven nunneries, and 9270 inhabitants, who subsist chiefly by the trade in silk, and by tanning and currying leather. Long. 12. 46. 50. E. Lat. 42. 24. 25. N.
RIGA, a city of the province of Livonia, a part of the Russian empirt in Europe. It is the capital of a circle of the same name as well as of the province. Tbe circle extends over 4180 square miles, and contains, in two cities, one market-town, and thirty-nine parishes, about 150,000 inhabitants. The city of Riga, called in the language of Esthonia
Riolin,
and in that of Livonia
Righo,
is situated on the right bank of the river Duna or Dwina, about seven miles from its entrance into the Baltic. As a barrier on the western frontier of Russia, it is strongly fortified, both on the land and the sea side. It is composed of large old houses, and of narrow crooked streets ill paved. The principal public buildings are the palace of the governor, the barracks, and the tow n-hall, used now’ as the exchange. It contains 1240 private dwellings, with about 30,000 inhabitants, exclusive of the garrison. The people are mostly of the German race, and their language is far more common than that of Russia or of Livonia. The Germans have four Lutheran and one reformed church ; and there are three Greek churches for the Russians and the troops. Thecity formerly was one of the Hanse Towms, and has now considerable export trade in the raw materials which are produced in the extended districts through which the river passes. At some seasons England draws much corn from this place. It has some considerable establishments for making leather, sail-cloth, linen, and some iron, steel, and other metallic articles. It imports large quantities of fruit, beer, wine, salt, sugar, tea, coffee, spices, and manufactured clothing. It has several institutions for education, and many for the relief of poverty, age, aud sickness. Long. 23. 57. 10. E. Lat. 56. 56. 32. N.
RIGADOON, a gay and brisk dance, borrowed originally from Provence in France, and performed in figure
by
a man and a w, oman.
RIGGING
of a Ship,
a general name given to all the ropes employed to support the mas⅛, and to extend or reduce the sails, or arrange them to the disposition of the wind. The former, which are used to sustain the masts, remain usually in a fixed position, and are called
standing rigging ;
such are the shrouds, stays, and backstays. The latter, whose office is to manage the sails, by communicating with various blocks or pulleys situated in different parts of the masts, yards, shrouds, &c. are comprehended in the general term of
running rigging.
Such are the braces, sheets, haliards, clue-lines, and brails.
RIGHT, in
Geometry,
signifies the same with straight ; thus, a straight line is called a
right
one.
Right is a title conferred, 1. together with
Reverend,
upon all bishops ; 2. together with
Honourable,
upon earls, viscounts, and barons ; 3. by courtesy, together with
Honourable,
upon the sons of dukes, marquises, and the eldest sons of earls ; 4. together with
Honourable,
upon the speaker of the House of Commons, but upon no other commoner excepting those who are members of her majesty’s most honourable privy council, and the three lords mayors of London, York, and Dublin, and the lord provost of Edinburgh, during their office.
RIGHTS, in the common acceptation of the word, are of various kinds ; they are
natural
or
adventitious, alienable 
or
unalienable, perfect
or
imperfect, particular
or
general.
Natural
rights are those which a man has to his life, limbs, and liberty ; to the produce of his personal labour ; to the use, in common with others, of air, light, and water.
That every man has a natural right or just claim to these things, is evident from their being absolutely necessary to enable him to answer that purpose, whatever it may be, for which he was made a living and a rational being. This shows undeniably that the Author of his nature designed that he should have the use of them, and that the man who should wantonly deprive him of any one of them, would be guilty of a breach of the divine law, as well as act inconsistently with the fitness of things in every sense in which that phrase can possibly be understood.
Adventitious
rights are those which a king has over his subjects, a general over his soldiers, a husband to the person and affections of his wife, and which every man has to the greater part of his property. The important question is, how are adventitious rights acquired? In answer to this question, the moralist who deduces the laws of virtue from the will of God, observes, that as God appears from his works to be a benevolent Being who wills the happiness of all his creatures, he must of course will every thing which naturally tends to promote that happiness. But the existence of civil society evidently contributes in a great degree to promote the sum of human happiness ; and therefore whatever is necessary for the support of civil society in general, or for the conduct of particular societies already established, must be agreeable to the will of God : but the allegiance of subjects to their sovereign, the obedience of soldiers to their leader, the protection of private property, and the fulfilling of contracts, are all absolutely necessary to the support of society ; and hence the rights of kings, generals, husbands, and wives, &c. though adventitious, and immediately derived from human appointments, are not less sacred than natural rights, since they may all be ultimately traced to the same source. The same conclusion may easily be drawn by the philosopher, who rests moral obligation on tlle fitness of things, or on a moral sense ; only it must in each of these cases partake of the instability of its foundation.
Rights, besides being natural or adventitious, are likewise
alienable
or
Vmalisnable.
Every man, when he becomes the member of a civil community, alienates a part of his natural rights. In a state of nature, no man has a superior on earth, and each has a right to defend his life, liberty, and property, by all tlle means which nature has put in his power. In civil society, however, these rights are all transferred to the laws and the magistrate, except in cascs of such extreme urgency as leave not time for legal interposition. This single consideration is sufficient to show that the right to civil liberty is alienable ; though, in the vehemence of men’s zeal for it, and in the language of some political remonstrances, it has often been pronounced to be an unalienable right. “ The true reason,” says Paley, “ why mankind hold in detestation the memory of those who have sold their liberty to a tyrant is, that, together with their own, they sold commonly or endangered the liberty of others; of which they had certainly no right to dispose.” The rights of a prince over his people, and of a husband over his wife, arc generally and naturally unalienable.
Another division of rights is into those which are
perfect
and those which are
imperfect.
Perfect rights are such as may be precisely ascertained and asserted by force, or in civil society by the course of law. To imperfect rights neither force nor law is applicable. A man’s rights to his life, person, and property, are all perfect ; for if any of these be attacked, he may repel the attack by instant violence, punish tile aggressor by thc course of law, or compel the author of the injury to make restitution or satisfaction. A woman’s right to her honour is likewise perfect ; for if she cannot otherwise escape, she may kill the ravisher. Every poor man has undoubted right to relief from the rich ; but his right is imperfect, for if the relief be not voluntarily given, he cannot compel it either by law or by violence. There is
no duty upon which the Christian religion puts a greater value than alms-giving, and every preacher of the gospel has an undoubted right to inculcate the practice of it upon his audience ; but even this right is imperfect, for he cannot refuse the communion to a man merely on account of his illiberality to the poor, as he can to another for the neglect of any duty comprehended under the term justice. In elections or appointments to offices, where the qualifications are prescribed, the best-qualified candidate has unquestionably a right to success ; yet if he be rejected, he can neither seize the office by force, nor obtain redress at law. His right, therefore, is imperfect.
Here a question naturally offers itself to our consideration : “ How comes a person to have a right to a thing, and yet have no right to use the means necessary to obtain it ?” The answer is, that in such cases the object or the circumstances of the right are so indeterminate, that the permission of force, even where tlle right is real and certain, would lead to force in other cases where there exists no right at all. Thus, though the poor man has a right to relief, who shall ascertain the mode, season, and extent of it, or the person by whom it shall be administered ? These things must be ascertained before the right to relief can be enforced by law ; but to allow them to be ascertained by the poor themselves, would be to expose property to endless claims. In like manner, the comparative qualifications of the candidate must be ascertained, before he can enforce his right to the office ; but to allow him to ascertain his qualifications himself, would be to make him judge in his own cause between himself and his neighbour.
Wherever tlle right is imperfect cn one side, the corresponding obligation on the other must be imperfect likewise. The violation of it, however, is often not less criminal in a moral and religious view, than of a perfect obligation. It is well observed by Paley, that greater guilt is incurred by disappointing a worthy candidate of a place upon which perhaps his livelihood depends, and in which he could eminently serve the public, than by filching a book out of a library, or picking a pocket cf a handkerchief. The same sentiment has been expressed by Mr Godwin, but in terms much too strong. “ My neighbour,” says he, “ has just as much right to put an end to my existence with dagger or poison, as to deny me that pecuniary assistance without which I must starve, or as to deny me that assistance without which my intellectual attainments or my moral exertions will be materially injured. He has just as much right to amuse himself with burning my house, or torturing my children upon the rack, as to shut himself up in a cell, careless about his fellow men, and to hide ‘ his talent in a napkin.’ ” It is certainly true, that the man who should suffer another to starve for want of that relief which he
knew
that he
alone 
could afford him, would be guilty of murder, and murder of the cruelest kind ; but there is an immense difference between depriving society of one of its members, and withholding from that member what might be necessary to enable him to make the greatest possible intellectual attainments. Newton might have bcen useful and happy though he had never been acquainted with the elements of mathematics.
Rights are
particular
or
general.
Particular rights are such as belong to certain individuals or orders of men, and not to others. The rights of kings, of masters, of husbands, of wives, and, in short, all the rights which originate in society, are particular. General rights are those which belong to the species collectively. Such are our rights to the vegetable produce of the earth and to the flesh of animals for food. If the vegetable produce of the earth be included under the general rights of mankind, it is plain that he is guilty of wrong who leaves any considerable portion of land waste merely for his own amusement : he is lessening the common stock of provision which Providence intended to distribute among the species. On this principle it would not be easy to vindicate certain regulations respecting game, as well as some other monopolies which are protected by the municipal laws of most countries. Dr Paley, by just reasoning, has established this conclusion, “ that nothing ought to be made exclusive property which can be conveniently enjoyed in common.” An equal division of land, however, the dream of some visionary reformers, would be injurious to the general rights of mankind, as it may be demonstrated that it wτ ould lessen the common stock of provisions, by laying every man under the necessity of being his own w, eaver, tailor, shoemaker, smith, and carpenter, as well as ploughman, miller, and baker.
Among the general rights of mankind is the right of
necessity ;
by which a man may use or destroy his neighbour’s property when it is absolutely necessary for his own pre-servatlon. It is on this principle that goods are thrown overboard to save the ship, and houses pulled down to stop the progress of a fire. In such cases, however, there must be restitution when it is in our power.
Rights,
Bill of
a Declaration delivered by the lords and commons to the prince and princess of Orange, 13th February 1688 ; and afterwards enacted in parliament when they became king and queen. It sets forth, that King James did, by the assistance of divers evil counsellors, endeavour to subvert the laws and liberties of this kingdom, by exercising a power of dispensing with and suspending of laws ; by levying money for the use of the crown by pretence of prerogative without consent of parliament ; by prosecuting those who petitioned the king, and discouraging petitions ; by raising and keeping a standing army in time of peace ; by violating the freedom of election of members to serve in parliament ; by violent prosecutions in the court of king’s bench ; and causing partial and corrupt jurors to be returned on trials, excessive bail to be taken, excessive fines to be imposed, and cruel punishments inflicted ; all which were declared to be illegal. . And the declaration concludes in these remarkable words : '“ And they do claim, demand, and insist upon, all and singular the premises, as their undoubted rights and liberties.” And the act of parliament itself (1 W. and M. stat. ii. cap. 2) recognises “ all and singular the rights and liberties, asserted and claimed in the said declaration, to be the true, ancient, indubitable rights of the people of this kingdom.”
RIGOLL, or Regals, a kind of musical instrument, consisting of several sticks bound together, only separated by beads. It is tolerably harmonious, being well struck with a ball at the end of a stick. Such is the account which Grassineau gives of this instrument. Skinner, upon the authority of an old English dictionary, represents it as a clavichord, or claricord ; possibly founding his opinion on the nature of the office of the tuner of the régals, who still subsists in the establishment of the king’s chapel at St James’s, and whose business is to keep the organ of the chapel-royal in tune ; and not knowing that such wind-instruments as the organ need fτequent tuning, as well as the clavichord and other stringed instruments. Sir Henry Spelman derives the word
rigυ!l
from the Italian
rigobello,
a musical instrument, anciently used in churches instead of the organ. Walther, in his description of the regal, makes it to be a reed-work in an organ, with metal and also wooden pipes and bellows adapted to it. And he adds, that tlle name of it is supposed to be owing to its having been presented by the inventor to some king. From an account of the regal used in Germany and other parts of Europe, it appears to consist of pipes and keys on one side, and the bellows and wind-chest on the other. We may add, that Lord Bacon, Nat. Hist. cent. ii. 102, distinguishes between the regal and organ, in a manner which shows them to be instruments of the same class. Upon the whole, there is reason to conclude, that the regal or rigoll was a pneu-
matic, and not a stringed instrument. Mersenne relates, that the Flemings invented an instrument,
les regales de bois,
consisting of seventeen cylindrical pieces of wood, decreasing gradually in length, so as to produce a succession of tones and semitones in the diatonic series, which had keys, and was played on as a spinnet ; the hint of which, he says, was taken from an instrument, in use among the Turks, consisting of twelve wooden cylinders of different lengths, strung together, which being suspended and struck with a stick having a ball at the end, produced music.
RIGOR, in
Medicine,
a convulsive shuddering from severe cold, an ague fit, or other disorder.
RIMA-SZOMBACH, a large market-town in the circle of Houth, and province of the Hither Theiss, in Hungary. It is situated on the river Rima, over which is a fine bridge. It is a well-built place, having a Catholic, a Lutheran, and a Calvinistic church, and a house of assembly for the meeting of the provincial states. It contains 4050 inhabitants, who are actively employed in making linen goods, in tanning leather, and other trades.
RIMINI, a city in the papal dominions, in the delegation of Forli. It is situated at the mouth of the river Marechia, over which is a bridge said to have been built by Augustus. The city was once on the sea-shore, but the water having receded, the canal to the ancient harbour is now a part of a garden. It is surrounded with walls. It is the seat of a bishop ; and, besides the cathedral, it contains several churches, and many convents, in which are paintings of the highest repute. It likewise contains several fine palaces, a public library, a town-house, and a market-place, adorned with some tine statuary. Among the antiquities are an amphitheatre, and some triumphal arches. There is a Lombard and several charitable institutions. The inhabitants amount to 17,460. They partly live on their incomes, but some are employed in making leather, in the fisheries, and in preparing sulphur. Long. 12. 27. 31. E. Lat. 44. 3. 43. N.
RING, an ornament of gold and silver, of a circular figure, and usually worn on the finger. The antiquity of rings is known from Scripture and profane authors. Judah left his ring or signet with Tamar. When Pharaoh committed the government of all Egypt to Joseph, he took his ring from his finger, and gave it to Joseph. After the victory which the Israelites obtained over the Midianites, they offered to the Lord the rings, the bracelets, and the golden necklaces, and the ear-rings, that they had taken from the enemy. The Israelitish women wore rings, not only on their fingers, but also in their nostrils and their ears. St James distinguishes a man of wealth and dignity by the ring of gold that he wr ore on his finger. At the return of the prodigal son, his father orders him to be dressed in a new suit of clothes, and to have a ring put upon his finger. The ring was used chiefly to seal with. The patents and orders of princes were sealed with their rings or signets ; and it was this that secured to them their authority and respect-The Episcopal Ring, w, hich makes a part of the pontifical apparatus, and is esteemed a pledge of the spiritual marriage between the bishop and his church, was used at a remote period. The fourth council of Toledo, held in 633, appoints that a bishop condemned by one council, and found afterwards innocent by a second, shall be restored, by giving him the ring, staff, &c. From bishops, the custom of the ring has passed to cardinals, who are to pay a very great sum
pro jure annuli cardinalitU.
RINGWOOD, a market-town of Hampshire, in the division of the New Forest, ninety miles from London. It is situated on the river Avon, is well built, has a handsome church, and a good market on Wednesday. It has been long celebrated for the excellence of the strong beer which is brewed there. The population amounted in 1801 to 3222, in 1811 to 3269, in 1821 to 3471, and in 1831 to 3434.
RIO GRANDE, a large river of Western Africa, which falls into the Atlantic a considerable distance to the south of the Gambia. It appears to be now ascertained, tllat the three great rivers of the western coast,
tlle
Senegal, the Gambia, and the Rio Grande, have all their sources very close to each other, in a range of mountains a short distance to the north-west of Teembo, in Foota Jallo. M. Mollien’s account represents the Gambia, called the Ba Diman, and the Rio Grande, called the Comba, as springing from the same basin, amid high mountains. The source of the latter stream is in latitude 10. 37. north, and longitude 11. 17. west- The correctness of this traveller’s statements is confirmed by M. Caillé, who crossed his route. M. Mol-lien, in describing the origin of the rivers, says, that on leaving the village called Toulon, he was led to the summit of one of the mountains which bear tlle appellation of Badet. Below him appeared two thickets, the one concealing the sources of the Rio Grande, and the other those of the Gambia. The valley in which they are situated forms a kind of funnel, having no other outlets than the two defiles by which tlle rivers issue. On quitting this basin these rivers pursue their course towards opposite points. The current of the Rio Grande is at first slow and turbid, but it soon clears ; and beyond the valley its direction, hitherto north-north-east, changes to the west. After receiving the Tomine or Dongo, it assumes the appellation of Kaboo, a name which also distinguishes the country between tlle Rio Grande, the Gambia, and the Geba river. The territories bordering on the upper part of its course are inhabited by Foulahs, and the kingdom of Foota Jallo extends along the right bank. Further down, its shores are peopled by the Biafaras1 Balantes, Papels, and other tribes, and occupied by the kingdoms of Ghinala and Biguba-Near its embouchure it divides into a number of branches, forming alluvial islands, which, with others farther out at sea, compose the Archipelagoofthe Bissagos. Thew'hole length of its course may be about 500 miles. It falls into the Atlantic fifty leagues to the south of the Gambia.
Rio Grande do Norte, a province of Brazil, is bounded on the south by Paraiba, on the north and east by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the west by Seara. Situated between the parallels of 4. 10. and 5. 45. of south latitude, the climate is of course very hot. At Cape St Roque, which forms the angle of this province, in longitude 36. 15. west, latitude 5. 7. south, tlle coast of Brazil terminates towards the north-east ; and the Atlantic Ocean, which has so long been its boundary on the east, begins to wash its northern shores. It presents about one hundred miles of sea-coast. The general features of the Jlrovince may be laid down as displaying a tolerable fertility to the southward of Natal, the capital, and as presenting a barren aspect to the northward of it, except on the banks, and in the immediate neighbourhood of the Rio Grande, or Potengi, the great river of the province. This stream rises in a ridge in the western limits of Rio Grande, and traverses its whole extent in a direction from south-west to north-east. The bar of the Potengi is narrow, but sufficiently deep for vessels of moderate tonnage. The river is very safe within the bar ; the water being deep and quite tranquil. The province is irrigated by other streams, on whose banks the most fertile land is to be found. The village and valley of Papari, lying to the north of the Rio Grande, are described as presenting a most inviting aspect. The whole of the valley is cultivated, and when every other part of thc Surroimding country is parched with drought, and the high sandy lands are rendered quite barren, this place retains its freshest verdure. Although at the distance of three or four leagues from the sea, the salt-water lake of Groahyras communicates with it, so that the inhabitants have the fish brought to their own doors. Between three and four leagues farther is the Indian village of St Joze, situated on a dry sandy soil. A
few leagues beyond this place the road passes over a succession of dismal sand-hills. These are perpetually changing their situations and forms ; and the high winds raise the sand in clouds, which render the road dangerous when they prevail. The sand is white and very fine, so that horses sink up to the knees at every step ; and it is so light as to prevent almost all vegetation.
Natal, the capital (so named because the church was consecrated on Christmas-day), sometimes called Cidade dos Reys1 or City of the Kings, is situated on the right margin of the Rio Grande, about two miles above its mouth. So highly was the position of Natal at one time valued, that during the Dutch war its fortress was deemed the strongest place in Brazil. At present it contains some good streets, squares, and churches, a governor’s palace, a town-hall, prison, and other public buildings. The harbour of Natal is spacious, and a flourishing trade is carried on. The population amounts to about 19,000.
To the north of Natal lies the town of Estremoz, about ten miles to the north-west, and at the same distance from the sea. In the western part of the province are several towns, of which the most considerable is that formerly called Assu, but now dignified with the name of Villa Nova da Princesa. It is situated on the left bank of the river of the same name, otherwise called the Parinhas, twenty-five miles from its mouth. Its position is nearly in the centre of Rio Grande ; and the road leading from Natal to it having been traversed by Mr Koster, a brief abstract of his description will serve to convey an idea of the character of the province in this quarter. The tract of country through which the road lies, is a plain traversed by a river remarkable for its serpentine evolutions. Here is a place called Lagoa Seca, or dry lake ; a place which is laid under water by the rains, but which supplies the capital with farinha during the drought. Betiveen eight and ten leagues from Natal is Pai Paulo, a place situated on the borders of the Sertam, a long barren plain of five days’journey. This scene is desolate and dreary in the extreme. On approaching Assu, however, lands covered with wood make their appearance ; and fazendas and other indications of human neighbourhood rise around. The town of Assu is situated upon the northern bank of the smaller branch of the river Assu, which here runs for a short distance in two channels. This place, chiefly built in the form of a square, contains several churches, and other public buildings. There are numerous salt-works in the vicinity, which bring some trade to the place, and large barks in the proper season ascend the river to the town. At the distance of about a league from Assu is the lake of Piato, three leagues in length by one in breadth, which is filled by the river in the rainy season, and is never quite dry. In summer its sides afford a rich soil for the cultivation of rice, maize, the cane, melons, and cotton. Between this place and the frontier of the province of Seara, a distance of four days’ journey, the country consists for the most part of plains, with trees thinly scattered, and patches of wood. Several salt-marshes intervene, and these, during the rainy season, form lakes. The Arraial of St Luzia stands on the left bank of the river Appody, about twenty miles from the sea. Large canoes advance up the river to this place, which carries on a trade in salt. From this situation downwards are found the famous salterns of Massoro, the salt of which is as white as snow. The Appody has a course of a hundred and thirty miles, running almost the whole way through a flat country, interspersed with lakes, w hich it fills by its floods. This river forms the boundary line between Rio Grande do Norte and Seara. The soil of many parts of this province is favourable to the growth of sugar-cane, and some trade is carried on in sugar, which, together with salt, seems to be the staple of commerce in this quarter of Brazil. The population of the whole province is not supposed to exceed 80,000 inhabitants.
Rio Grande do Sul, formerly the most southern province in the empire of Brazil, but, according to recent accounts, now an independent republic of South America., It declared its independence in 1836, and resolved on introducing a constitution similar to that of the United States of North America. In April and May 1838 two severe conflicts took place between the troops of the emperor of Brazil and the insurgents, in both of which the former were defeated with great slaughter. Whether this country may ultimately succeed in maintaining its position among the republican states of South America, appears very doubtful. Rio Grande do Sul is bounded on the north by St Catharina and St Paulo ; on the west by the river Uruguay, which separates it from tlle republic of the same name ; on the south by the river Plata; and on the east by the Atlantic Ocean. Itis upwards of five hundred miles in length by four hundred in breadth, lying between latitude 28° and 35° south, and enjoys a temperate and salubrious climate. This extensive country chiefly consists of large plains, covered with immense herds of cattle and other animals. Some mountain-ridges traverse it in various directions, but none of them is of any great height. Here several large rivers have their origin, of which the Uruguay, the Jacuhy or Rio Pardo, and the Camapuam, are the most important Its great extent Oflevelandalluvial coast exhibits some lakes of vast dimensions. The Lagoa dos Patos is the largest lake in Brazil, being one hundred and fifty miles in length from northeast to south-west and about forty miles in breadth. It is said to derive its name from a species of fowl which frequents its waters in great numbers. This lake is the recipient of almost all the streams which irrigate the northern and eastern portions of the country. It is very shallow, and its water continues fresh as far as the island dos Marin-heiros, near the port of St Pedro. Although encumbercd with sand-banks, and subject to violent squalls of wind, it may be navigated without much risk. The peninsula lying between the lake and the ocean is low and level, and almost in a direct line on the eastern side, but forms various points and bays on the opposite side. The western shore of the lake is bold but not rugged, and is cut by several rivers, of which the Camapuam and Jacuhy, already mentioned, are most deserving of notice. The sources of the former are in a chain of low hills called the great Cochilha, which traverses the western limits of the country. It flows with a rapid and disturbed current interrupted by continued cataracts for nearly a hundred miles, receiving fourteen streams from the south and fifteen from the north, and falls into the lake about the middle of its western side, by five different channels, formed by four small islands. The Jacuhy, sometimes called the Rio Pardo, which is one of its tributaries, is a river of still greater value. It rises in the province of St Paulo, and after traversing the southern declivity of the general ridge for a few leagues, it turns eastward, describing innumerable windings for a course of thirty leagues, during which it collects the water of a number of smaller rivers, many of them being navigable. It then suddenly bends towards the south, and after running fifteen miles in this direction, enters the western side of the lake about four leagues below its northern extremity. It is a fine, broad and deep river, with lofty and diversified banks, and is full of little islands. To the south-west of the Lagoa dos Patos lies another sheet of water, called Lake Mirim, or Mirin. It is ninety miles in length by about twenty in breadth, and discharges itself into the Lagoa dos Patos by means of a channel called the river of St Gonzales. Lake Mirim is very shallow, and in the rainy season it widely extends its borders. The Gonzales is fifty miles in length : it is wide and handsome, and navigable for small vessels, which by this channel pass into Lake Mirim, and thence by means of rivers penetrate into the fertile interior, and distribute their cargos to the large town»
@@@1 Mr Luccock mentions some circumstances very interesting in a geological point of view ; and as his remarks convey a correct idea of the nature of the coast in this quarter, we shall quote them. He informs us that by a careful examination of the coast, it will convincingly appear that a very considerable portion of it has been formed by sand driven up by the ocean. “ The two lakes which form the chief features of this part of tbe country have probably been created by the rivers which flow into them repelling the sand accumulated at their mouths by the occasional impetuosity cf their currents, until the bar was formed in the dead water produced bv the stream and the ocean. Here the hank would gradually rise above the high-water mark, and compel the river to bend its course ; and by constant acquisition would grow broader and longer, and at length form an estuary within it.” In this manner he thinks the Jacuhy. Camapuam, and other rivers, were compelled by accumulation of sand to take a southern course, and thus produced the great lake. In confirmation of this view, he states that the bar ofthe Itio Grande is still proceeding southward.
on thc coast. There are other large lakes running parallel with the shore, but these are the most important.
On the northern bank of the Jacuhy, twenty-five miles from its mouth, stands the town of Portalegre, the capital of tile country. It is situated on a declivity, and commands a fine view of the river and the surrounding country. The houses are well built, the streets well laid out, and altogether it is a very neat and flourishing place. The government-house and public offices are placed on a hill. It has several churches, schools, what appear to be the rudiments of a university, a dock-yard, and other public establishments and institutions. In 1812 Mr Luccock thus spoke of it : “ As a capital, its influence is wide ; as a seat of commerce, it commands a large tract of country, and many navigable rivers.” It has subsequently made very great advancement. Englishmen have long been established here ; and not only commerce, but agriculture, has been much benefited by their exertions. One great bar to improvement is, that much of the interior is Stiil in the hands ef the native tribes, whose animosity to white people is of the bitterest description. Portalegre contains above 12,000 inhabitants.
Being situated at the head of the great lake, it has constant intercourse with St Pedro do Sul, which lies at the foot of it. Up to the year 1763 this town was the capital of the province, and was usually called Rio Grande, from its harbour, which forms the entrance to the Lagoa dos Patos, and is, with the same impropriety as the bay of Rio de Janeiro, termed a river. The town was begun a league to the south-west of where it now stands, in the situation called Estreito, near the head of the bay or harbour. It stood on a bank about twenty feet in height, and was surrounded with a parapet of sods, as a barrier against the encroaching sands.@@1 Yet by a slow but sure progress they appear to have gained ground, so as almost to have overwhelmed the town, and occasioned its removal to the present site. It is now situated on a level plain, a little above high-water mark ; but, like its predecessor, it suffers much from the accumulation of sand. Its public buildings comprise a cathedral, the plainness of which externally and internally does not prevent it from being a handsome edifice. It has several public buildings, and is defended by a fort. Its commercial importance appears to be considerable. Many towns along the coast mainly depend upon this part of the continent for their supply of food. Immense quantities of wheat, hides, tallow’, dried beef, cheese, and other articles are shipped from this port, and commerce is rapidly increasing. We have no means of ascertaining the amount of its population ; but it is certainly not less than that of the capital, for it was the great mart of Southern Brazil while the country formed an integrant part of the empire. Near this town is the fertile island of Marinheiros, which contains some of the highest land and the best cultivated spots in the neighbourhood.
This country, we have said, is chiefly distinguished for cattle-breeding. The proprietors of land are divided into two classess, viz. fazendeiros or farmers, and lavradores or husbandmen. The latter, who breed only what is necessary for their own consumption, possess generally about two square leagues of land ; the former will farm from eight to ten leagues, but some of these fazendas are reported to extend to a hundred square leagues, or nearly 600,000
acres. To each three square leagues are allotted four or five thousand head of cattle, six men, and a hundred horses. The proportion of horses will appear a very large one ; but it is to be kept in view that, in this pastoral country, they cost nothing in keeping, and even short journeys of half a mile are made on Eorseback. About one hundred cows are allowed for the supply of milk, butter, cheese, and veal, to a farm of the average size. Hogs, although abundant, are but little valued : sheep might be multiplied to any extent, in consequence of their producing generally two lambs at a birth, but do not appear to attract much attention. Droves of horses and mules are bred to a great extent ; the latter are, however, found to be much more profitable than the former, a mule being double the value of a horse. Horses are trained for tlle exercises of the field, in a manner peculiarly well adapted to fortify them against fear. They are much used in capturing cattle, which, as is the universal custom in South America, is effected by the lasso. Cattle form the grand staple of Rio Grande, and the beef, hides, ar.d tallow which they yield are the chief articles of export. An extensive tract, famous for its fine cattle, is comprehended under the name of Charqueados, derived from the “ charqued” beef, which is prepared in this district tor exportation. When the cattle are killed and skinned, the flesh is taken off from the sides in one broad piece, something like a flitch of bacon ; it is then slightly sprinkled with salt, and dried in the sun. In that state it forms the common food of the peasantry. Some idea of the immense quantity thus prepared may be formed from the fact, that in one year a single individual slaughtered 54,000 head of cattle, and charqued the flesh.
The history of this portion of South America presents little but a gloomy picture of Spanish aggression and Portuguese retaliation. Lying on the confines of Brazil, where the latter bordered on the possessions of Spain, it was convenient for hostile inroad on the part of the latter power ;' and it was unfortunate for these colonies that the animosities of the mother countries in Europe were communicated across the Atlantic, and perpetually embroiled their settlements, so that the bloody and ever-losing game cf war played between the powers was maintained in both hemispheres at once. Into details of mutual hostilities we shall not enter ; it is sufficient to state that this country was finally incorporated with the empire cf Brasil, and so continued, till its recent assertion of independence. The population of Rio Grande do Sul is estimated at 160,000.    (r. r. r.)
RIO DE JANEIRO, an important province of Brazil, is bounded on the north by Espiritu Santo, from which it is separated by the river Capabuan, and by Minas Geraes, from wilich it is divided by the rivers Preto and Paraiba, and in part by the Serra da Manliqueira ; on the west it borders on San Paulo ; and the Atlantic Ocean washes it on the south ar.d east. It embraces half of the old capitania of St Vincente, together with a part of territory which formerly belonged to Espiritu Santo. Its length from east to west is estimated at sixty leagues ; and its medium breadth is about twenty-three leagues. This province is distinguished for its romantic beauty and great fertility, notwithstanding its being very mountainous. From south-west to north-east runs the Serra dos Orgoas, or Organ Mountains and this chain divides it into two nearly equal portions : the northern half is called Seιτa Accina, or Mountains Above ;
the southern, Beira-Mar, or Sea-coast. Theseagain are subdivided, the former into the districts of Paraiba Nova and Canto Gallo, the latter into Rio Janeiro, Bha Grande, Cape Frio, and Goytacazes. The Organ Mountains derive their extraordinary appellation from the appearance of their pyramidal heads of granite, which bristle up along the horizon, and bear a fancitul resemblance to organ-pipes in a vast cathedral. The whole province is well watered by a number of streams, the most considerable being the Paraiba. This river originates in a small lake in the southern part of the Serra da Bocania, a continuation of the Organ Mountains. It flows first into the province of San Paulo ; but after a long and winding course it re-enters the province in which it rose, and disembogues in its eastern part. The Rio de Janeiro is a misnomer, from De Sousa, the discoverer of this part of the country, having mistaken the salt bay or gulf, so called, for the mouth of a river. Many streams discharge themselves into this bay towards its upper end, several of them being navigable to some distance. Among these may be mentioned the Iraja, which issues from a small lake, and affords navigation with the tide to its port of the same name ; the Miriti, which traverses a marshy country, but whose banks have a very rich soil, and produce abundance of sugar, milho, and mandioc ; the Iguassu, which is navigable for four leagues, and has for a tributary the Iguare, a stream affording navigation for a mile to the port of the same name ; the Maraby, which flows from the Serra of Boaviεta, and is navigable to the port of Couto1 three leagues above its mouth ; the Inhumirim, a fine river, the banks of which, as well as those of its confluents, are well cultivated ; it is navigable for three leagues to the flourishing port of Estrella ; the Igu-apezu or Macacu1 one of the largest streams which fall into the bay, being navigable for fifteen leagues, during which it receives several tributaries from the mountains ; the Suruhy, Mageassu, and Iguapimirim, which descend from the mountains. These and several other streams fall into the bay of Rio, and by their means different parts of the country to the northward of the capital may be visited with considerable facility. Near the right bank of the river Igua-pimirim is the parish of Ajuda, the soil of which is remarkably productive, and is planted with mandioc, rice, and coffee. Towns are in general situated on the banks of these streams, forming ports from which the products of the surrounding territory are embarked for the capital, tlle grand emporium of commerce. Lakes are very numerous in the province of Rio ; the most remarkable are the Ja-caré-Pagua, and the Roderigo de Freytas.
The principal bays by which the coast is indented are the bay of Rio de Janeiro, and Augra dos Reys or King’s Bay. The bay of Rio is stated to be no less than thirty-two miles in circumference, and on its shores are numerous smaller inlets, which may be termed sub-bays. All travellers agree in praising the surpassing grandeur and beauty of this majestic inlet of the sea. “ Nothing that I have ever seen,” says Mrs Graham, “ is comparable in beauty to this bay. Naples, the Frith of Forth, Bombay Harbour, and Trincomalee, each of which I thought perfect in its beauty, all must yield to this, which surpasses each in its different way.” This capacious basin is embosomed among elevated mountains, having conically shaped summits, and, being well wooded, are of romantic and picturesque beauty. Some of these advance a considerable distance into the bay, whilst others retire as far inland, leaving between them deep recesses nnd glens. The entrance of the bay is narrow, being only three quarters of a mile in breadth ; and its granite barriers are so bold, causing it to resemble a gap or chasm in the mountain ridge, that, doubtless, it was often passed by early navigators without their apprehending the existence of such an immense salt-water lake within. Being completely land-locked, and protected from gales on every side, it is perfectly secure, even for boats, at all seasons of the year ; from which circumstance, as well as from many other advantages which it possesses, it has been pronounced the finest harbour in the world. It is so well defended by strong forts that it seems completely closed against a hostile force. The bay is studded with about a hundred islands, on many of which are forts. That of Ilha dos Cobras, or Snake Island, is of great strength, and constitutes one of the most commanding points for the defence of the city. In short, tlle Brazilians and early subjugators of the country have carefully availed themselves of every advantage- presented by nature for rendering their capital ιmassailable by a maritime force. On either side the shores of the bay, lined at the water’s edge with cottages and hamlets of fishermen, sweep widely round ; while behind, hills in the richest state of cultivation, studded with farm-houses and villas, and crowned with churches and monasteries, all of purest white, rise abruptly on every side, till, a few miles inland, they terminate in the bold, beautiful, and picturesque ranges of the Organ Mountains.
With the exception of the capital, there are few places in the province of Rio which require particular notice. Canto Gallo is the capital of a district of amazing fertility, and carries on considerable trade with Rio in the productions of the soil. Porto d’Estrella and Mage are the names of other towns which also carry on a great deal of traffic with the capital. The productions of this province comprise almost every thing for which Brazil is celebrated ; diamonds and precious stones, sugar, coffee, cotton, and, in short,.all fruits peculiar to the tropics, are here produced in the richest abundance, and of the most excellent quality.
City of Rio.
The city of St Sebastian, now universally called Rio de Janeiro, the capital of the Brazilian empire, is situated on the south-western side of the bay or harbour just described, about four miles from its entrance. It occupies the north-east part of a tongue of land of an irregularly quadrangular shape, and extending on an inclined plane, a short distance into the bay. The town itself, which also exhibits the form of a parallelogram, and rises between four fortified eminences, which flank it at each corner, presents a north-east aspect of the bay, whose waters wash three sides of the square promontory on which it stands. The site selected for tlleir town by the early settlers is considered the best that could have been chosen, out of many excellent ones that everywhere present themselves. The most easterly point is the Punta do Calabouço ; the most northerly is the Armazem do Sal, opposite to which is the small island cf Ilha das Cobras. The most ancient and important part of the city is built between these two points along the shore, lying from north-west to south-east ; and a beautiful quay, constructed of solid blocks of chiselled granite, forms an elegant façade to it. The houses of Rio are neatly and substantially built, generally of granite, and two stories high, with little wooden balconies in front, the windows and doors being cased with hewn blocks of this stone, which the quarries at the end of every street supply in abundance, and of the finest quality. The lower stories are commonly occupied by shops and warehouses, and the upper ones by the family apartments. The whole town is disposed in squares, the streets crossing each other at right angles, and, although narrow, they are well paved, and lined at each side by flagged trottoirs. The style of architecture of the old town is in general mean, resembling that of the old part of Lisbon ; but the new town is in a much more handsome style. Although this town has always ranked as the most important in Brazil, or as second only to Bahia at the time when the latter was the seat of government ; yet it was only after the imperial residence and the court were fixed here that it assumed the character of a European city. Great improvements took place after that event. The new town has almost wholly sprung up
since it occurred. This part of Rio is connected with the south-western quarter, or Bairro de Mato-porcos, by the bridge of St Diogo, thrown over a salt-water inlet. Between the old and new town is situated a large plain, nearly surrounded by an amphitheatre of mountains, clothed at their bases with the richest verdure, and terminating by belts of forest-trees of immense growth, and of every variety. One of these elevations is called the Corcovado, or Broken Back, an appellation which it acquired from its extraordinary and fantastical shape. The plain thus environed is enclosed with houses so as to form an enormous quadrangle, perhaps the largest square in the world. Here are erected the senate-house, the museum, the camera or town-hall, and other public buildings. One of the most striking features of the Brazilian capital is the number of its churches and monasteries, which not only abound in the city, but are seen crowning almost all the surrounding eminences.
Near the centre of the quay, which has already been mentioned, there is a large square, surrounded on three of its sides with buildings, but having its fourth open to the bay. In this square the palace or imperial residence is situated ; but although extensive in its dimensions, and commodious and even splendid in its internal arrangements, there is nothing magnificent or striking in its architecture. The public library occupies a suite of rooms in this quarter. It contains sixty or seventy thousand volumes in all languages, ancient and modern, and is considered a very admirable establishment. It is particularly distinguished for its collection of Bibles, said to be one of the most extensive in the world. On the quay, in front of the square, is a very beautiful fountain for supplying water to this part of the city, and to the shipping in the harbour. It is fed by a Sjllendid stone aqueduct leading from the Corcovado Mountain, not more striking for the magnificent singularity of its appearance than for its importance and utility. This great work, which is called Arcos de Cariaco, extends across a deep valley, resting on a double tier of lofty arches placed one above the other to the height of eighty palms, and the water is conducted to the reservoir by a succession of stone troughs, laid on the top of this bridge, under an arched covering of brick-work. Each tier comprises forty-two arches, the upper one extending one hundred and forty fathoms. The whole of this splendid superstructure is highly ornamental to the city, as well as of the greatest utility to it. The following is the provision made for education : a military academy ; a naval academy ; a surgical and medical academy ; an academy of the fine arts, in connection with which we may mention a national museum ; and, lastly, two ecclesiastical seminaries, where the ancient and modern languages are taught, as well as divinity and the sciences. There are attached to it about twelve professors, for whose salaries eleven millions of reis are annually allowed by government. Besides these, there are several schools on Lancaster’s principle, and a primary school in almost every street of the city. In short, there seems to be ample provision made for the education of the people in Rio, and it is perfectly free to all classes, in which respect half-civilized Brazil is in advance of Great Britain herself. In periodicals, gazettes, and newspapers, the city is by no means deficient, and book-printing is carried on, although not extensively. Governinenthasaprintingestablishment. There is a public walk and a botanic garden in the city, and another much more extensive at some distance from it. There is a bishop of Rio, who has under him the usual train of ecclesiastical functionaries. The Roman Catholic religion is that patronized by the state, but Protestants are permitted to exercise their own peculiar form of worship.
Rio is the grand emporium of Brazilian commerce ; but we need not enter into particulars in this place, as an account of the exports and imports will be found in the article Brazil, to which the reader is referred. Its coasting trade is immense, centring in itself that of all southern Brazil. The goods which it receives from foreign countries it distributes all over this vast region, obtaining the pro-
∖
 ductions of each district in return. The manufactures of this city are unimportant. The shops are generally large and commodious, and well supplied with English goods, and other kinds of merchandise. Chinese goods may also be purchased here very reasonably. There is a number of English and North American merchants in the city, who monopolize no inconsiderable portion of the exjκ>rt trade.
The climate of Rio is considered as favourable to health, comfort, and even longevity, as that of any other place between the tropics. The sun is nearly vertical for a few weeks in December, when the heat is oppressive ; but a refreshing sea-breeze sets in every morning, and modifies the temperature. During the summer months, which may be reckoned as extending from October to April, heavy rains fall ; but, on the whole, few places possess a more beautiful climate than this celebrated city. At certain seasons it may be unhealthy to strangers, but the danger is averted by adopting the Brazilian mode of living, and by avoiding the night dews, exposure to the sun, and all excesses in eating and drinking. It is among the happy immunities of the country, that it is exempt from the accidents which occur in a similar latitude on the opposite side of the continent. Earthquakes are here unknown. The population consists of a singular mixture of coloure and nations. About two thirds are negroes, mulattoes, and other people of the darker shades. Among the whites are seen English, French, Germans, Italians, Dutch, and North Americans. Much disparity exists amongst the statements of writers regarding the exact number of the inhabitants. It is supposed to Be about 200,000, of whom a very great number are slaves. The city lies in lat. 22.53. S. and long. 43. 12. W.
The bay of Rio was discovered on the 1st of January 1531, by Martin Alphonso de Sousa, a Portuguese navigator. The natives had given to this tranquil basin the significant appellation of Nitherohy, that is, hidden water; but he, supposing it the estuary of some great river like the Orinoco, called it the Rio de Janeiro, after the day on which it had been discovered. It. remained many years unnoticed or unoccupied by the Portuguese, but in the mean time was taken possession of by France, and became an asylum for the persecuted Huguenots. These were subsequently expelled by the Portuguese, who, in 1567, founded the city of Rio. In 1676 it was erected into a bishopric, and its riches soon rendered it an object of cupidity to other European powers. But the few attempts made to wrest it from Portugal were unsuccessful. It steadily advanced in riches and importance, so that in the year 1763, Dom Joseph was induced to transfer hither the vice-regal residence from Bahia, hitherto the capital of the province of Brazil. In 1808 it became the residence of the Portuguese court, and in 1822 was constituted the capital of the independent empire of Brazil. In 1831 it was the theatre of a revolution, in which 6000 armed citizens were joined by the troops of the line in their opposition to the government, and in consequence of which Dom Pedro abdicated the throne in favour of his son Pedro II.
According to the census of 1823, the last that has been made public, the popιdation of the whole province of Rio de Janeiro was 589,650.    (r. r. r.)
RIOM, an arrondissement of the department of Puy de Dome, in France, extending over 893 square miles. It comprehends thirteen cantons, divided into 130 communes, and m 1836 contained 151,456 inhabitants. The capital is the city of the same name, situated on the river Limagne. It is well builι, with broad streets, and is surrounded by five
promenades. It is the seat ofa bishop, and had, in 1836,
11,473 inhabitants, who make linen cloth, cotton goods, ser-t ges, and cassimeres, glass, brandy, and leather ; and trade in wine, brandy, nut-oil, and flax-seed, by the river. Long. 3. L 45. E. Lat. 45. 54. 30. N.
RIOSECO, a partido, in the province of Valladolid, in Spain, the capital of which, of the same name, but with the prefix sometimes of
Medina del,
is a large city. There is a canal from it which unites the canal of Campo with that of Castille. It contains three churches, five monasteries, two hospitals, 1200 houses, and betwixt 8000 and 9000 inhabitants, who manufacture serges and some other woollen goods, and ribbons and other silk goods. There are two fairs held annually, wr hich were places of vast resort, but had declined, till of late years they have revived, and are again become of great importance to the place. There is also a town of the same name in the district of Rey-nosa and province of Toro, in a mountainous part of the country.
RIOU’S Island, or Rooahooga, in the Pacific Ocean, about twenty-four miles in circumference, discovered in 1792 by Lieutenant Hergest. It is barren and rocky. Long. 139. 9. W. Lat. 8. 54. S.
RIPEN, or more properly Ribe, is a sea-port town and capital of the district of Ribe, in the province of North Jutland, Denmark, and is situated on the river Nipsaae1  which here falls into the North Sea. The harbour is difficult of access, and admits only of small vessels. There is a castle, two colleges, and a public library ; but the principal building is the cathedral, which is a handsome structure, and contains many of the tombs of the kings of Denmark. The bishopric is the most ancient, not only of Denmark, but also of Sweden and Norway. The town carries on a considerable trade in linen ; and it also exports corn, horses, and cattle. The population in the year 1834 amounted to 2365.
RIPHCEAN Mountains are a chain of high mountains in Russia, to the north-east of the river Oby, where there are said to be the finest sables of the whole empire.
RIPLEY, a market-town of the west riding of the county of York, 215 miles from London and tour from Knaresborough, in the wapentake of Claro. It is situated on the river Nyd, over which is a stone bridge. It was formerly a place of some importance, having a large castle, the ruins of which still exist. The church is an ancient building, with many monuments. It is remarkable from the extensive cultivation of liquorice. The market is on Friday, but has been but little attended of late years. The population amounted in 1801 to 892, in 1811 to 880, in 1821 to 1282, and in 1831 to 1219 ; but in the parish are included other two townships.
RIPON, a city of the west riding of Yorkshire, 222 miles from London. It is situated between two small streams, the Ure and the Skell. A new diocese has been erected, and the first bishop of Ripon, Dr Longley, was consecrated in 1836. The cathedral, formerly the collegiate church, has a dean, a subdean, four prebendaries, and two vicars. It is a fine old building, recently placed in good order. It was once adorned with two steeples, one of which was blown down, and the other has been removed. The market-place is one of the finest in the north of England, and is well attended on Thursdays. Ripon was once celebrated for making spurs, but that trade has vanished. Cotton-mills have been erected, which afford more employment. The municipal government consists of a mayor, four aldermen, and eleven councillors. The population amounted in 1821 to 4563, and in 1831 to 5080. Near to it is the magnificent seat and grounds of Studley Royal.
RISIBLE, any thing capable of exciting laughter.
Ludicrous
is a general term, signifying, as may appear from its derivation, what is playsome, sportive, or jocular.
Ludi
crous
therefore seems the genus, of which
risible
is a species, limited to what makes us laugh.
However easy it may be, concerning any particular object, to say whether it be risible or not, it seems difficult, if at all practicable, to establish any general character, by which objects of that kind may be distinguished from others. Nor is that a singular case ; for, upon a review, we find the same difficulty in most of the articles already handled. There is nothing more easy, viewing a particular object, than to pronounce that it is beautiful or ugly, grand or little ; but were we to attempt general rules for ranging objects under different classes according to these qualities, we should be much gravelled. A separate cause increases the difficulty of distinguishing risible objects by a general character : all men are not equally affected by risible objects, nor the same man at all times ; for in high spirits a thing will make him laugh aloud, which will scarcely provoke a smile in a grave mood. Risible objects, however, are circumscribed within certain limits. No object is risible but what appears slight, little, or trivial ; for we laugh at nothing that is ofimportance to our own interest or to that of others. Real distress raises pity, and therefore cannot be risible ; but a slight or imaginary distress, which moves not pity, is risible. The adventure of the fulling-mills in Don Quixote is extremely risible ; so is the scene where Sancho, in a dark night, tumbling into a pit, and attaching himself to the side by hand and foot, hangs there in terrible dismay till the morning, when he discovers himself to be within a foot of the bottom. A nose remarkably long or short is risible ; but to want it altogether, so far from provoking laughter, raises horror in the spectator. With respect to works both of nature and art, none of them is risible but such as are out of rule; some remarkable defect or excess, a very long visage, for example, or a very short one. Hence nothing just, proper, decent, beautiful, proportioned, or grand, is risible.
Even from this slight sketch it will be readily conjectured, that the emotion raised by a risible object is of a nature so singular as scarcely to find place while the mind is occupied with any other passion or emotion ; and the conjecture is verified by experience ; for we scarcely ever find that emotion blended with any other. One emotion we must except ; and that is, contempt raised by certain improprieties : every improper act inspires us with some degree of contempt for the author ; and if an improper act be at the same time so risible as to provoke laughter, of which blunders and absurdities are noted instances, the two emotions of contempt and of laughter unite intimately in the mind, and produce externally what is termed a
laugh of derision
or
of scorn.
Hence objects that cause laughter may be distinguished into two kinds : they are either
risible
or
ridiculous. 
A risible object is mirthful only ; a ridiculous object is both mirthful and contemptible. The first raises an emotion of laughter that is altogether pleasant : the pleasant emotion of laughter raised by thc other is blended with the painful emotion of contempt, and the mixed emotion is termed 
the emotion of ridicule.
The pain which a ridiculous object gives me is resented and punished by a laugh of derision. A risible object, on the other hand, gives me no pain ; it is rendered altogether pleasant by a certain titillation, which is expressed externally by mirthful laughter.
RITE, among divines, denotes the particular manner of celebrating divine service.
RITORNELLO, or Repeat, in
Music,
the burden of a song, or the repetition of the first or other verses of a song at the end of each couplet.
RITUAL, a book directing the order and manner to be observed in performing divine service in a particular church, diocese, or the like. The ancient heathens had also their rituals, which contained their rites and ceremonies to be observed in building a city, consecrating a temple or altar,
in sacrificing and deifying, in dividing the curiæ, tribes, centuries, and, in general, in all their religious ceremonies. There are several passages in Cato’s books
De Re Rustica, 
which may give us some idea of the rituals of the ancients.
RIVA, a city of the Austrian province of Trieste, in the circle of Roveredo. It is placed on the lake of Garda, in
a beautiful situation, and has a good haven, from which a considerable trade is carried on between Italy and Germany. Here many vessels are built. The inhabitants amount to 3350, and some of them are employed in making hardware. It is said that a million dozen of Jews’ harps are made annually in this place, and distributed over all Europe.
RIVER.
A river is a current of fresh water, flowing in a bed or channel from its source to the sea.
The term is appropriated to a
considerable
collection of waters, formed by the conflux of two or more brooks, which deliver into its channel the united streams of several rivulets, which have collected the supplies of many rills trickling down from numberless springs, and the torrents which carry off from the sloping grounds the surplus of every shower.
Rivers form one of the chief features of the surface of this globe, serving as voiders of all that is immediately redundant in our rains and springs, and also as boundaries and barriers, and even as highways, and in many countries as plentiful storehouses. They also fertilize our soil by laying upon our warm fields the richest mould, brought from the high mountains, where it would have remained useless for want of genial heat.
Being such interesting objects of attention, every branch acquires a proper name, and the whole acquires a sort of personal identity, of which it is frequently difficult to find the principle ; for the name of the great body of waters which discharges itself into the sea is traced backwards to one of the sources, while all the contributing streams are lost, although their waters form the chief part of the collection. And sometimes the feeder in which the name is preserved is smaller than others which are united to the current, and which like a rich but ignoble alliance lose their name in that of the more illustrious family. Some rivers indeed are respectable even at their birth, coming at once in force from some great lake. Such is the Rio de la Plata, the river St Lawrence, and the mighty streams which issue in all directions from the Baical Lake. But, like the sons of Adam, they are all of equal descent, and should take their name from one of the feeders of these lakes. This is indeed the case with a few, such as the Rhone, the Rhine, the Nile. These, after having mixed their waters with those of the lake, resume their appearance and their name at its outlet.
But in general their origin and progress, and even the features of their character, bcar some resemblance (as has been prettily observed by Pliny) to the life of man. The river springs from the earth, but its origin is in heaven. Its beginnings are insignificant, and its infancy is frivolous ; it plays among the flowers of a meadow ; it waters a garden, or turns a little mill. Gathering strength in its youth, it becomes wild and impetuous. Impatient of the restraints which it still mects with in the hollow s among the mountains, it is restless and fretful ; quick in its turnings, and unsteady in its course. Now it is a roaring cataract, tearing up and overturning whatever opposes its progress, and it shoots headlong down from a rock ; then it becomes a sullen and gloomy pool, buried in the bottom of a glen. Recovering breath by repose, it again dashes along, till, tired of the uproar and mischief, it quits all that it has swept along, and leaves the opening of the valley strewed with the rejected waste. Now, quitting its retirement, it comes abroad into the world, journeying with more prudence and discretion, through cultivated fields, yielding to circumstances, and winding round what would trouble it to overwhelm or remove. It passes through the populous cities and all the
busy haunts of man, tendering its services on every side, and becomes the support and ornament of the country. Now increased by numerous alliances, and advanced in its course of existence, it becomes grave and stately in its motions, loves peace and quiet ; and in majestic silence rolls on its mighty waters, till it is laid to rest in the vast abyss.
The philosopher, the real lover of wisdom, sees much to admire in the economy and mechanism of running waters ; and there are few operations of nature which give him more opportunities of remarking the nice adjustment of the most simple means for attaining many purposes of most extensive beneficence. All mankind seems to have felt this. The heart of man is ever open (unless perverted by the habits of selfish indulgence and arrogant self-conceit) to impressions of gratitude and love. He who ascribes the religious principle (debased though it be by the humbling abuses of superstition) to the workings of fear alone, may betray the slavish meanness of his own mind, but gives a very unfair and a false picture of the hearts of his neighbours. Lucretius was but half a philosopher when he penned his often quoted apophthegm. Indeed his own invocation shows how much the animal was blended with the sage.
We apprehend, that whoever will read with an honest and candid mind, unbiassed by licentious wishes, the accounts of the ancient superstitions, will acknowledge that the amiable emotions of the human soul have had theiι share in creating the numerous divinities whose worship filled up their kalendars. The sun and the host of heaven have in all ages and nations been the objects of a sincere worship. Next to them, the rivers seem to have attracted the grateful acknowledgments of the inhabitants of the adjacent countries. They have everywhere been considered as a sort of tutelar divinities ; and each little district, every retired valley, had its river-god, who was preferred to all others with a partial fondness. The expostulation of Naa-man the Syrian, who was offended with the prophet for enjoining him to wash in the river Jordan, was the natural effusion of this attachment. “ What!” said he, “are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, more excellent than all the waters of Judea ? Might I not wash in them and be clean ? So he went away wroth.”
In those countries particularly, where the rural labours and the hopes of the shepherd and the husbandman were not so immediately connected w’ith the approach and recess of the sun, and depended rather on what happened in a far distant country by the falls of periodical rains or tlle melting of collected snows, the Nile, the Ganges, the Indus, the river of Pegu, were the sensible agents of nature in procuring to tlle inhabitants of their fertile banks all their abundance, and they became the objects of grateful veneration. Their sources were sought out with anxious care even by conquering princes ; and when found, w, ere universally worshipped with the most affectionate devotion. These remarkable rivers, so eminently and so palpably beneficent, preserve to this day, amidst every change of habit, and every increase of civilization and improvement, the fond adoration of the inhabitants of those fruitful countries through which they hold their stately course, and their waters are still held sacred. No progress of artificial refinement, not all the corruption of luxurious sensuality, has
