RACINE
(John), of the. French academy, trea-surer of France in the generality of Moulins, and fecretary to his majesty, was born at Ferre-Milon in 1639. He had a fine genius for the
Belles Lettres,
and became one of the first poets of the age. He produced his
Thebαide
when but very young ; and afterwards other pieces, which met with great success, though they appeared when Corneille was in his highest reputation. In his career, however, he did not fail to meet with all that opposition which envy and cabal are ever ready to set up against a superior genius. It was partly owing to a chagrin from this circumstance that he took a refolution to quit the theatre for ever ; although his genius was still in full vigour, being not more than 38 years of age. But he had also imbibed in his in-fancy a deep sense of religion ; and this, though it had been smothered for a while by his connections with the theatre, and particularly with the famous actress Champ-melle, whom he greatly loved, and by whom he had a son, now at length broke out, and bore down all before it. In the sirst place, he resolved not only to write no more plays, but to do a rigorous penance for those he had written ; and he actually formed a design of be-coming a Carthusian friar. His religious director, however, a good deal wiser than he, advised him to think-more moderately, and to take measures more fuita⅛Ie to his character. He put him upon marrying, and-settling in the world : with which proposal this humble and tractable penitent complied ; and immediately took to wife the daughter of a treasurer of France for Amiens, by whom he had seven children.
He had been admitted a member of the French academy in 1673, * n the room θ f La Mothe le vayer deceased ; but spoiled the speech he had made upon that occasion by pronouncing it with too much timidity. In 1677, he was nominated with Boileau, with whom he was ever in strict friendship, to write the history of Louis XIV. ; and the public expected great things from two writers of their distinction, but were difappointed. Boileau and Racine, after having for some time laboured at this work, perceived that it was en* tirely opposite to their genius.
He spent the latter years of his life in composing a history of the house of Port-Royal, the place of his education ; which, however, though finely drawn up, as many have asserted, has not bcen published. Too great senfibility, say his friends, but more properly an impotence of spirit, shortened the days of this poet.—-Though he had conversed much with the court, he had not learned the wisdom, which is usually learned there, cf disguifing his real fentiments. Having drawn up a well-reafoned and well-written memorial upon the mife-ries of the people, and the means of relieving them, he one day lent it to Madam de Maintenon to read ; when the king coming in, and demanding what and whose it was, commended the zeal of Racine, but disapproved of his meddling with things that did not . concern him : and faid with an angry tone, " Because he knows how to make .good verses, does he think he knows every thing? And would he be a minister of state, because he is a great poct ?” These words hurt Racine greatly : he conceived dreadful ideas of the king’s displeasure ; and his chagrin and fears brought on a fever, of which he died the 2 2d of April 1699.
the king, who was sensible of his great merit, and always loved him, sent often to him in his illness ; and finding after his death that he had more glory than riches, settled a handsome pension upon his family.— There is nothing in the French language written with . more wit and elegance than his pieces in prose. Be-sides his plays, several of his letters have been published-; he also wrote spiritual songs, epigrams, &c. Racine’s
works were printed at Amsterdam in
17ii i
in J vol§ 12 mo, and the next year a pompous edition was printed in 2 vols quarto,
