RACING
the riding heats for a plate, or other premium. See
Plate.
The amusement of horse-racing, which is now so common, was not unknown among the great nations of antiquity, nor wholly un-practised by our ancestors in Britain, as we have al-ready mentioned in the article
Race.
In 1599, pri= vate matches between gentlemen, who were their own jockies and riders, were very common ; and, in the reign of James I. public races wcre established at various pla-ces, when the discipline, and mode of preparing the horses for running, &c. were much the same as they are now. The most celebrated races of that time were called be’l-courses, the prize of the conqueror being a bell: hence, perhaps, the phrase of
bearing the bell,
when applied to excellence, is derived In the latter end of Charles I.’s reign, races were performed in Hyde-Park. Newmarket was alfo a place for the same purpose, though it was sirst used for hunting. Racing was re-vived soon after the Restoration, and much encouraged by Charles II. who appointed races for his own amuse-mcnt at Datchet Mead, when he resided at windsor. Newmarket, however, now became the principal place. The king attended in person, established a houfe for his own acconsmodation, and kept and entered horses in his own name. Instead of bells, he gave a filver bowl or cup value 100 guineas ; on which prize the exploits and pedigree of the fuccessful horse were generally en-graved. Instead of the cup or bowl, the royal gift is now a hundred guineas, william III. not only added to the plates, but even founded an academy for riding ; and Queen Anne continued the bounty of her ances-tors, adding several plates herfelf. George I. towards the end of his reign, discontinued the plates, and gave in their room a hundred guineas. An act was passed in the 13th year of the reign of George II. for sup-
iireffing races by poneys and other small and weak ιorfes, &c. by which all matches for any prize under the value of 50 1. are prohibited, under a penalty of 2.00 1. to be paid by the owner of each horse running, and 100 1. by such as advertise the plate ; and by which each horse entered to run, if five years old, is obliged to carry ten stones ; if six, eleven ; and if seven, twelve. It is also ordained, that no person shall run any horse at a course, unless it be his own, nor enter more than one horse sor the same plate, upon pain of forfeiting the horses ; and alfo every horse-race must be begun and ended in the same day. Horses may run for the value of 50 1. with any weight, and at anyplace. 13 Geo. II. cap. 19. 18 George II. cap. 34. Pennant’s British Zoology, vol. i. p. 6, &c. Berenger’s History and Art of Horsemanship, vol. i. p. 185, &c. At New-market there are two courses, the long and the round : the first is exactly four miles and about 380 yards,
i. e.
7420 yards. The second is 6640 yards. Childers, the swiftest horse ever known, has run the first course in seven minutes and a half, and the second in six mi-nutes forty seconds ; which is at the rate of more than forty-nine feet in a fecond. But all other horses take up at least seven minutes and fifty seconds in completing the first and longest course, and seven minutes only in the shortest, which is at the rate of more than forty,
feven,
feet in a fécond. And it is commonly supposed that thefe
<khh⅛>jj
cover, at every bound, a fpaee of ground in length about twenty-four English feet. Race-hprsea have becn for some time an object of taxation.
